# Module 11: Configuring and managing Client Hyper-V
# Lab: Configuring and managing Client Hyper-V
  
### Scenario
  
 The IT department at Adatum Corporation wants to test several apps in different operating system environments prior to deploying the apps in production. Several members of the application testing team have expressed interest in creating virtual environments on their Windows 10 computers where they can create and configure VMs. You have been asked to demonstrate the process of creating a virtual environment that the team can use to test the apps. 


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to: 

- Install Client Hyper-V.

- Create virtual switches, virtual hard disks, and VMs.

- Use integration services and checkpoints.


### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 50 minutes

Virtual machines:  **LON-DC1**, ** LON-CL1**,  **VM1**, and  **VM2**

 Username:  **Adatum\Administrator** (LON-DC1, LON-CL1), **Administrator** (VM1)

 User password:  **Pa55w.rd** ( **LON-DC1**,  **LON-CL1, VM1**)

 Start and sign in to  **LON-CL1**.

 VM1 and VM2 don’t exist at this point. You will be creating them during this lab.

 For this lab, you will use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In  **Hyper-V Manager**, click  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, and in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.

3. In the  **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 

4. Sign in by using the following credentials: 


  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**


5. Repeat steps 2-4 for  **20697-2C-LON-CL1**.



## Exercise 1: Installing Client Hyper-V
  
### Scenario
  
 Several members of the application testing team asked if they can install Client Hyper-V in a VM. When they tried to do that in the past, they always got an error. 

You decide to demonstrate to them how to enable nested virtualization and how to install Client Hyper-V in a VM. As part of the demonstration, you will show several additional changes that happen when you install Client Hyper-V.

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Enable nested virtualization

2. Install Client Hyper-V



#### Task 1: Enable nested virtualization
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, verify that no program containing the word  **Hyper-V** is installed.

2. Use the  **Get-Command** cmdlet to verify that no cmdlets from the Hyper-V ** **module are currently available.

3. Try to install the Hyper-V Windows feature with all components.
>  **Note:** You cannot install the Hyper-V Platform feature because **LON-CL1** does not meet the prerequisites for installing Client Hyper-V.
4. On the physical host computer, enable nested virtualization for  **LON-CL1** by running the following Windows PowerShell command:

  ```
  Set-VMProcessor 20697-2C-LON-CL1 –ExposeVirtualizationExtensions $True
  ```

>  **Note:** You will get an error because **LON-CL1** is running and you can enable nested virtualization only if the VM is turned off.
5. Shut down  **LON-CL1**, and then enable nested virtualization for  **LON-CL1**.

6. Configure  **LON-CL1** with 4096 MB of memory.

7. Enable MAC address spoofing for the  **LON-CL1** network adapter.



#### Task 2: Install Client Hyper-V
  
1. Start  **LON-CL1** and then sign in as **Adatum\Administrator** using **Pa55w.rd** as the password.

2. Install the Hyper-V Windows feature with all components, and restart  **LON-CL1** when needed.

3. Sign in to  **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\Administrator** using **Pa55w.rd** as the password.

4. Use the  **Get-Command** cmdlet to verify that many cmdlets from the Hyper-V ** **module are now available.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have enabled nested virtualization and installed the Client Hyper-V feature.


## Exercise 2: Creating a virtual switch, a virtual hard disk, and a VM
  
### Scenario
  
 You have been asked to demonstrate how to create different types of virtual switches and explain the differences between them. You also need to demonstrate how to create different types of virtual hard disks, in addition to how you can expand them while they are in use. Some application team members were confused about the differences between Generation 1 and Generation 2 VMs, and have asked you to explain when to use each type of VM. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create virtual switches

2. Create virtual hard disks

3. Creating VMs

4. Resize virtual hard disks



#### Task 1: Create virtual switches
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, use Hyper-V Manager to verify that only one virtual switch, named Default Switch, is available.

2. Verify that two network connections are present on  **LON-CL1**.

3. Use Hyper-V manager to create a private virtual switch named  **Private Switch**.

4. Verify that no additional network connection was added on  **LON-CL1** when you created the private switch.

5. Use Hyper-V manager to create an internal virtual switch named  **Internal Switch**.

6. Verify that an additional network connection was added on  **LON-CL1** when you created the internal switch.

7. Use Hyper-V manager to create an external virtual switch named  **External Switch**.

8. Verify that an additional network connection was added on  **LON-CL1** when you created the external switch.

9. Try to create an additional external virtual switch named  **External Switch 2**.

>  **Note:** Because **LON-CL1** has a single network adapter, an error occurs. The error message states that the physical network adapter is already bound to the virtual switch, and the network adapter can be bound to only one external virtual switch.


#### Task 2: Create virtual hard disks
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, ** **use Hyper-V Manager to create a new virtual hard disk with the following settings:


- Format: ** VHDX**

- Type: ** Dynamically expanding**

- Name: ** Dynamic.vhdx**

- Location:  **C:\VMs**


1. Size: ** 100 GB**

2. Use Hyper-V Manager to create a new virtual hard disk with the following settings:


- Format: ** VHD**

- Type: ** Differencing**

- Name: ** Differencing.vhd**

- Location:  **C:\VMs**

- Parent: ** E:\Labfiles\Mod11\Base18A-W10-1709.vhd**


3. In Windows PowerShell, use the  **New-VHD** cmdlet to create a new virtual hard disk with the following settings:


- Path: ** C:\VMs\Fixed.vhdx**


4. Size: ** 1 GB**

5. Type: ** Fixed size**

6. In File Explorer, browse to the  **C:\VMs** folder, ** **and then confirm that  **Fixed.vhdx** allocates **1 GB** disk space, while **Dynamic.vhdx** and **Differencing.vhd** are allocated much less disk space.



#### Task 3: Creating VMs
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, use Hyper-V Manager to create a new VM with the following settings:


- Name: ** VM1**

- Generation: ** Generation 1**

- Startup memory:  **1024 MB**

- Use Dynamic Memory: ** Disabled**

- Connection:  **External Switch**

- Virtual hard disk:  **C:\VMs\Differencing.vhd**


2. Start VM1 and verify that the VM1 checkpoint has been created automatically.

3. While VM1 is running, add the following two virtual hard disks to its SCSI controller:

  -  **C:\VMs\Fixed.vhdx**

  -  **C:\VMs\Dynamic.vhd**

4. While VM1 is running, increase its memory to 1500 MB.

5. Use Hyper-V Manager ** **to create a new VM with the following settings:


- Name: ** VM2**

- Generation: ** Generation 2**


6. Startup Memory:  **512 MB**

7. Enable the TPM for VM2.

8. Start VM2 and verify that the VM2 checkpoint has been created automatically.

9. While VM2 is running, add a network adapter to VM2 and connect it to the private switch.

10. Turn off VM2 and verify that its automatically created checkpoint was deleted.



#### Task 4: Resize virtual hard disks
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, connect to VM1 using a display configuration of  **800 by 600 pixels**.

2. On VM1, sign in as  **Admin** and use **Pa55w.rd** as the password.

3. On VM1, use Disk Management to verify that VM1 has three disks. These are the differencing, fixed size, and dynamically expanding disks that you created earlier in the lab.

4. Create simple volumes with the maximum size possible on Disk 1 and Disk 2, and format them as NTFS disks.

5. Verify that the volume on Disk 1 has a size of 1 GB, the volume on Disk 2 has a size of 100 GB, and there is no unallocated space on either of those disks.

6. On  **LON-CL1**, use the following  **Resize-VHD** cmdlets to increase Disk 1 to 2 GB, and Disk 2 to 150 GB:

  ```
  Resize-VHD C:\VMs\Fixed.vhdx –SizeBytes 2GB 
Resize-VHD C:\VMs\Dynamic.vhdx –SizeBytes 150GB
  ```

7. On VM1, verify that 1 GB of unallocated space is added to Disk 1 and 50 GB of unallocated space is added to Disk 2.

8. Extend volume E: to the whole of Disk 1.

9. On  **LON-CL1**, use File Explorer to verify the sizes of Fixed.vhdx, Dynamic.vhdx, and Differencing.vhd virtual hard disks.

>  **Note:** You extended Fixed.vhdx to 2 GB. The Dynamic.vhdx size has also increased, although it is considerably smaller than 150 GB. The Differencing.vhd size has also increased because new data was written to it.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created different types of virtual switches, virtual hard disks, and VMs.


## Exercise 3: Using Integration Services and checkpoints
  
### Scenario
  
 The application testing team is often installing and testing new applications and updates. After testing is finished, they redeploy the computers they used for testing. The application testing team is quite interested in checkpoints because checkpoints provide a faster and simpler way of providing the same functionality in VMs.

You decide to demonstrate to the team how to use checkpoints and explain what the difference is between standard and production checkpoints. You also decide to demonstrate that Client Hyper-V automatically creates a checkpoint if a VM doesn’t have any. Additionally, you want the application team to be familiar with the functionality that Integration Services provide.

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure Integration Services

2. Work with checkpoints



#### Task 1: Configure Integration Services
  
1. On ** **VM1, use the Services window to verify that the Hyper-V Time Synchronization Service is running, and that the Hyper-V Guest Service Interface is not.

2. Use the  **Get-Date** cmdlet to verify the local time, and use the **Set-Date** cmdlet to set the time to **11:00**.

3. Use the  **Get-Date** cmdlet to verify the local time again, and then confirm that it was set back automatically to its previous value. This change occurred because Integration Services automatically synchronizes VM time with the time on the Hyper-V host.

4. On volume E:, create a file named  **File1.txt** that contains your name.

5. On  **LON-CL1**, try to copy File1.txt from  **LON-CL1** to VM1 by using the following **Copy-VMFile** cmdlet:

  ```
  Copy-VMFile VM1 -SourcePath E:\File1.txt -DestinationPath C:\ -FileSource Host
  ```

>  **Note:** You will get an error because the Guest Service Interface is not running in VM1.
6. On ** LON-CL1**, use Hyper-V Manager to disable the Time synchronization and enable Guest services integration services for VM1. 

7. On VM1, use the Services console to verify that the Hyper-V Time Synchronization Service is not running, and that the Hyper-V Guest Service Interface is running.

8. Use the  **Set-Date** cmdlet to set time to **11:00**. Use the  **Get-Date** cmdlet to confirm that the local time is now a few seconds after **11:00**. This is because the time on the VM is no longer synchronizing with the Hyper-V host.

9. Verify that  **File1.txt** does not exist on drive C.

10. On ** LON-CL1**, use the following  **Copy-VMFile** cmdlet to copy the file **E:\File1.txt** to the root of the C drive in **VM1**: 

  ```
  Copy- VMFile VM1 -SourcePath E:\File1.txt -DestinationPath C:\ -FileSource Host
  ```

11. On VM1, verify that File1.txt ** **now exists on drive C.

12. View content of C:\File1.txt, and verify that it contains your name.



#### Task 2: Work with checkpoints
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, use Hyper-V Manager to verify that ** **VM1 is using the  **Fixed.vhdx** virtual hard disk and that it is configured to use standard checkpoints.

2. Create a checkpoint for  **LON-VM1**, and verify that it displays in Hyper-V Manager.

3. On VM1, create a folder named  **Folder1** on the desktop.

4. Create a checkpoint for VM1, ** **and name it  **Folder1**. 

5. On  **LON-CL1**, use Hyper-V Manager to verify that VM1 is now using a virtual hard disk whose name starts with  _Fixed_ and it has a GUID in its name.

6. Configure VM1 to use production checkpoints.

7. On VM1, on the desktop, create a folder named  **Folder2**.

8. Create a checkpoint for VM1 ** **and name it  **Folder2**. 

9. On  **LON-CL1**, use Hyper-V Manager to verify that VM1 has four checkpoints.

10. Apply a checkpoint named  **Folder1** to VM1.

11. On VM1, sign in as  **Admin**, ** **and use  **Pa55w.rd** as the password.

12. Verify that only  **Folder1** displays on the desktop, that Windows PowerShell is running, and that you can view the cmdlets that you used previously in the Windows PowerShell window.
>  **Note:** You have just applied a standard checkpoint, which includes memory content.
13. On  **LON-CL1**, apply a checkpoint named  **Folder2** to VM1.

14. Start VM1, and then sign in as  **Admin** using **Pa55w.rd** as the password.

15. On VM1, verify that the Folder1 and Folder2 folders are available on the desktop. Also verify that no running program displays on the taskbar. 

>  **Note:** You applied a production checkpoint. Because a production checkpoint does not include memory content, the VM must go through the startup process when you apply a production checkpoint.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Integration Services, and created and applied checkpoints.



## 
  
**Question** 
In the lab, you created a private virtual switch to connect to the VM. Would a private virtual switch be the logical choice if you were using the VM for testing Windows Updates? Why or why not?

**Question** 
Can you use Hyper-V Manager to shrink a virtual hard disk in VHDX format while it is in use?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  