# Lab Answer Key:  Module 9: Deploying apps and managing information access by using Intune
# Lab: Deploying apps and managing information access by using Intune
  
## Exercise 1: Deploying apps by using Intune
  
#### Task 1: Create an app category
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge, and navigate to  [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com).

2. Sign in with the following account:

- Username:  **GAdmin@*&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com**

- Password: The password you created in Module 3

3. In the navigation pane, select  **All services**.

4. In the  **Search** box, type **Intune**, and then select  **Intune** from the results.

5. In the Microsoft Intune blade, select  **Mobile apps**, and then under  **Setup**, select  **App categories**.

6. Select  **Add**, and then in the  **Default name** text box, type **IT tools**.

7. Select  **Create**, and then confirm that the  **IT tools** category appears in the **App categories** list.



#### Task 2: Customize the Company Portal
  
1. In the  **Mobile apps** workspace, select **Company Portal branding**.

2. In the  **Company portal branding** blade, type the following information:

  - Company name:  **Adatum**

  - IT department contact name:  **Adatum IT**

  - IT department phone number:  **555-555-5555**

  - IT department email address:  **IT@adatum.com**

  - Company privacy statement URL:  **https://adatum.sharepoint.com/IT/Privacy**

  - Support website URL:  **https://adatum.sharepoint.com/IT/Support**

3. Support website name:  **Adatum helpdesk**

4. Select  **Show company logo**.

5. Next to  **Select a logo to use on light backgrounds**, select the  **Browse** icon.

6. Navigate to  **C:\\Labfiles\\Mod09\\Adatumlogo.png**, and then select  **Open**.

7. Next to  **Select a logo to use on dark backgrounds**, select the  **Browse** icon and repeat step 5.

8. Clear the  **Show company name next to logo** check box, and then select  **Save**.



#### Task 3: Synchronize Intune with Microsoft Store for Business
  
  **Add Intune as a management tool in the Microsoft Store for Business**

1. On  **LON-CL3**, in Microsoft Edge, open a new tab and navigate to  **http://businessstore.microsoft.com**.

2. Sign in with the following account:

  - Username:  **GAdmin@*&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com**

  - Password: The password you created in Module 3

3. Select  **Manage**, and then select  **Settings**.

4. Under  **Settings**, select  **Distribute**.

5. Under  **Management tools**, next to  **MicrosoftIntune**, select  **Activate**.


  **Synchronize Intune with the Microsoft Store for Business**


6. In Microsoft Edge, switch to the  **Dashboard – Microsoft Azure** tab.

7. In the  **Mobile apps** workspace, select Microsoft Store for Business.

8. Select  **Enable**, and then verify  **English** is selected.

9. Select  **Save**, and then select  **Sync**.

10. In the  **Mobile apps** workspace, select **Apps** to view the list of available apps.

    >  **Note:** You should see the apps added in Module 8. It might take some time for the apps to sync.



#### Task 4: Add apps to Intune and assign to devices
  
  **Add Office 365 ProPlus suite to Intune**

1. In the  **Mobile apps** workspace, select **Apps**, and then select  **Add**.

2. In the  **App type** list, under **Office 365 Suite**, select  **Windows 10**.

3. Select  **Configure App Suite**.

4. Select the following Office 365 apps, and then select **OK**:

  -  **Excel**

  -  **OneDrive Desktop**

  -  **OneNote**

  -  **Outlook**

  -  **PowerPoint**

  -  **Skype for Business**

  -  **Word**

5. Select  **App Suite Information**, and then in the  **Suite Name** text box, type **Adatum standard Office install**.

6. In the  **Suite Description** text box, type **Standard Office 365 installation for most Adatum users**.

7. Under  **Display this as a featured app in the Company Portal**, select  **Yes**.

8. Select  **OK**.

9. Select  **App Suite Settings**, and then select  **64-bit**.

10. Under  **Update Channel**, select  **Monthly**.

11. Under  **Use shared computer activation**, select  **Yes**, and then select  **OK**.

12. Select  **Add**.

13. In the  **Adatum standard Office install** blade, select **Assignments**.

14. Select  **Add group**, in **Assignment type** drop-down list select **Available for enrolled devices** and then click  **Included Groups**.

15. On **Assign** blade, click **Select groups to include**, in **Select** text box type **Windows devices**, select **Windows devices** and click **Select**.

16. Click **OK** twice and then click **Save**.


  **Add an LOB app to Intune**

17. In **Azure portal**, on **Mobile apps – Apps** blade, click **Add**.

18. In the  **App type** list, select **Line-of-business app**.

19. Select  **App package file**, and then select the  **Browse** icon.

20. Navigate to  **C:\\Labfiles\\Mod09\\XMLNotepad.msi**, and then select **Open**.

21. Select  **OK**, and then select  **App information**.

22. In the  **Description** text box, type **XML text editor for the IT team**.

23. In the  **Publisher** text box, type  **Microsoft**.

24. In the  **Category** list, select **IT tools**.

25. In the  **Information URL** text box, type **https://adatum.sharepoint.com/IT/Tools**.

26. In the  **Privacy URL** text box, type **https://adatum.sharepoint.com/IT/privacy.**

27. In the  **Developer** text box, type **Microsoft**, and then in the  **Owner** text box, type **Adatum IT**. 

28. Under  **Logo**, select  **Select image**.

29. Select the  **Browse** icon.

30. Navigate to  **C:\\Labfiles\\Mod09\\notepad.png**, and then select  **Open**.

31. Select  **OK** twice, and then select **Add**.

32. In the  **XML Notepad 2007** blade, select **Assignments**.

33. Select  **Select groups**, and then select  **Windows devices**.

34. Select  **Select**.

35. Under  **Type**, select  **Required**, and then select  **Save**.



#### Task 5: Install assigned apps through Intune
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, on the Start menu, select  **Settings**.

2. Select  **Accounts** and then select **Access work or school**.

3. Under work or school account select  **Abbi@*&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com** and select **Info**.

4. Select  **Sync**.

    >  **Note:** Wait for the settings to sync and for XML Notepad 2007 to install. XML A link to XML Notepad 2007 will appear on the Desktop.

<!-- -->

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully:Created an app category in Intune.Customized the Company Portal.Synchronized Intune with the Microsoft Store for Business, added Microsoft Store for Business apps to Intune.Added Office 365 ProPlus and LOB apps to Intune, and assigned them to a device group.Installed an app from the Company portal.


## Exercise 2: Configuring a WIP policy in Intune
  
#### Task 1: Create a WIP policy in Intune
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, in Microsoft Edge, switch to the  **Dashboard – Microsoft Azure** tab.

2. In the navigation pane, select  **All services**.

3. In the  **Search** box, type **Intune**, and then select  **Intune** from the results.

4. Select  **Mobile apps**.

5. Select  **App protection policies**, and then select  **Add a policy**.

6. In the  **Name** text box, type **Windows 10 WIP test policy**.

7. In the  **Platform** list, select **Windows 10**.

8. In the  **Enrollment state** list, select **With enrollment**.



#### Task 2: Add protected apps, WIP-protection mode, and corporate identity
  
1. In the  **Add a policy** blade, select **Protected apps**.

2. Select  **Add apps**.

3. Select  **MicrosoftEdge** and **Notepad**.

4. Select  **OK** twice.

5. Select  **Required settings**.

6. Select  **Allow overrides**.

7. In the  **Corporate identity** text box, type **Adatum.com**, and then select  **OK**.



#### Task 3: Define corporate boundaries
  
1. Select  **Advanced settings**.

2. Select  **Add network boundary**.

3. In the  **Boundary type** list, select **Network domains**.

4. In the  **Name** text box, type **Domain name**.

5. In the  **Value** text box, type **Adatum.com**, and then select  **OK**.

6. Repeat steps 2−5 for the following boundary:

  - Boundary type:  **IPv4 ranges**

  - Name:  **IPv4 Range**

  - Value:  **172.16.0.1-172.16.0.190**



#### Task 4: Create and upload a DRA certificate
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, right-click the  **Start** menu, select **Windows PowerShell(Admin)**, and in the  **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

2. In the  **Windows PowerShell** console, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Cipher /rc:\users\admin\documents\ADATUMDRA
  ```

3. When prompted, type  **Pa55w.rd**, and then confirm the password.

4. Switch to Microsoft Edge, and under  **Data protection**, select the  **Browse** icon.

5. Browse to the  **Documents** folder, select the **ADATUMDRA.cer** file, and then select **Open**.

6. Under  **Show the enterprise data protection icon**, select  **On**. 

7. Select  **OK**, and then select  **Create**.



#### Task 5: Create and test the WIP policy
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, in Edge, select the policy  **Windows 10 WIP test policy.**

2. Select  **Assignments**, then select  **Select groups to include**.

3. In the  **Select** search box enter **Windows devices**.

4. Select  **Windows devices** and select **Select**.

5.  On the Start menu, select **Settings**.

6. Select  **Accounts** and then select **Access work or school**.

7. Under work or school account select  **Abbi@*&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com** and select **Info**.

8. Select  **Sync**.

    >  **Note:** Wait for the settings to sync.

9. In Edge, navigate to  **https://*&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*.sharepoint.com**.

10. If prompted, sign in with the credentials:

  - Usename:  **Abbi@*&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

11. Start Internet Explorer and navigate to  **https://*&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*.sharepoint.com**.

    >  **Note:** You should not be able to successfully navigate to the SharePoint site in internet explorer because it is not an allowed app.



#### Task 6: Create a wipe request
  
1. In Microsoft Edge, switch to the  **Dashboard – Microsoft Azure** tab.

2. In the  **Microsoft Intune** blade select **Devices**.

3. Select  **All Devices** and select **LON-CL3**.

4. Select  **Remove company data**.

5. In the  **Remove company data – LON-CL3** dialog, select **Yes**.

    >  **Note:** Note that the message **Remove company data pending…** appears in Microsoft Azure.

6. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 7: Prepare for the next module
  
- After you complete the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. You can shut down the virtual machines.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully configured and deployed a WIP policy by using Intune.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
