# Lab Answer Key:  Module 7: Managing devices by using Microsoft Intune
# Lab A: Implementing Intune
  
## Exercise 1: Adding Intune users
  
#### Task 1: Assign Microsoft Enterprise Mobility + Security licenses to users
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge and navigate to https://portal.office.com/AdminPortal.

2. Sign in with the following account:


- Username: GAdmin@ _initialsMMDDYY_.onmicrosoft.com

- Password: The password you created in Module 3


1. In the Navigation pane, expand  **Users** and then select **Active Users**.

2. In the user list, select  **Adam Hobbs**.

3. In the  **Adam Hobbs** window, next to **Product licenses**, select  **Edit**.

4. To enable the license, next to  **Enterprise Mobility + Security E5**, select  **Off**. 

5. If necessary, set the location to  **United States**, and then select  **Save**.

6. Select  **Close** twice.

7. Repeat steps 4 through 7 for the following users:


- Abbi Skinner

- Ada Russell

- Aidan Norman



#### Task 2: Assign a Global Administrator
  
1. In the Office 365 Admin center, in the navigation pane, select  **Users**, and then select  **Active Users**.

2. In the user list, select  **Adam Hobbs**.

3. In the  **Adam Hobbs** window, next to **Roles**, select  **Edit**.

4. Select  **Global administrator**, and then select  **Save**.

5. Select  **Close** twice.

6. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 3: Verify user access
  
1. On  **LON-CL4**, open Microsoft Edge and navigate to https://portal.office.com.

2. Sign in with the following account:


- Username:  **Abbi@initialsMMDDYY.onmicrosoft.com**

- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

>  **Note:** Notice that Abbi Skinner does not have access to the Admin console.

  **Open the Intune Company Portal**

1. Use Microsoft Edge to navigate to https://portal.manage.microsoft.com.

2. Sign in with the following account:


- Username:  **Abbi@initialsMMDDYY.onmicrosoft.com**

- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

>  **Note:** Abbi Skinner should have access to the Company Portal website. No devices are yet configured.

1. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 4: Verify administrator access
  
1. On  **LON-CL4**, use Microsoft Edge to navigate to https://portal.office.com/AdminPortal.

2. Sign in with the following account:


- Username:  **Adam@initialsMMDDYY.onmicrosoft.com**

- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


1. Under  **Admin centers**, select I **ntune**.

>  **Note:** The **Intune console** in the Azure portal attempts to open. Adam Hobbs should have access.

  ** Open the Intune classic portal**

1. Open Internet Explorer and navigate to https://admin.manage.microsoft.com.

2. Sign in with the following account:


- Username:  **Adam@initialsMMDDYY.onmicrosoft.com**

- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

>  **Note:** If prompted, install Silverlight with default settings.
>  **Note:** Adam Hobbs should have access to the Intune classic portal website.

1. Close Internet Explorer and Microsoft Edge.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have assigned Intune licenses to users, assigned Global Administrator access to a user, verified that users can access the Company Portal, and verified that the Global Administrator can manage Intune from both the Azure portal and the Intune classic portal.


## Exercise 2: Delegating permissions and using the Azure portal
  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure AD group to manage role membership
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge to navigate to https://portal.azure.com.

2. Sign in with the following account:


- Username:  **GAdmin @initialsMMDDYY.onmicrosoft.com**

- Password: The password you created in Module 3


1. In the Navigation pane, select  **Azure Active Directory**.

2. Select  **Users and groups**, and then select  **All groups**. 

3. Select  **New group**.

4. Enter  **Adatum Custom Role Test** in the **Name** box.

5. Under Membership type, select  **Assigned**, and then select  **Members**.

6. In the  **Select** box, enter **Allan**.

7. Select  **Allan Yoo**, ** **and then select ** Select.**

8. Select  **Create** and then close the **Group** pane **.**



#### Task 2: Create a custom Intune role
  
1. In the Azure portal, click  **More services**, in the search box, enter  **Intune**, and then in the results, under  **Services**, select  **Intune**.

2. In the  **Intune console**, select  **Intune roles**.

3. Select  **All roles**, and then select  **Add Custom**.

4. Enter the name  **Adatum Intune Test**.

5. Select  **Permissions**, and then select  **Device Compliance Policies**.

6. Next to  **Assign**, select  **Yes**.

7. Next to  **Read**, select  **Yes**, ** **and then select  **OK** twice.

8. Select  **Create**.

9. Select the role  **Adatum Intune Test**.

10. Select  **Assignments**, ** **and then select  **Assign**.

11. In the  **Assignmentname** box, enter **Test assignment**.

12. Select  **Members (Groups)**, and then select  **Add.**

13. On the  **Select groups** blade, select **Adatum Custom Role Test**, and then select  **Select**.

14. Select  **OK**, and then select  **Scope (Groups)**.

15. Select  **Add**, and then select  **IT**.

16. Select  **Select**, and then select  **OK** twice.



#### Task 3: Verify custom role permissions
  
1. On  **LON-CL4**, use Microsoft Edge to navigate to https://portal.azure.com.


Sign in with the following account:

- Username:  **Allan @initialsMMDDYY.onmicrosoft.com**

- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


1. In the Azure portal, click More services, and then in the search box, enter  **Intune** and then in the results, select **Intune**.

2. In the  **Intune console**, select  **Device enrollment**.
You should not be able to view any data.

3. Click back to Microsoft Intune, and then in the  **Intune console**, select  **Device compliance**. 
You should be able to view the  **Device compliance** blade.

4. Close Microsoft Edge.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created an Azure AD group to manage membership in the custom role, created a custom Intune role and assigned permissions to the role, and verified that the user has the delegated permissions assigned by the role.


## Exercise 3: Enrolling Windows 10 devices in Intune
  
#### Task 1: Configure Azure AD for automatic device enrollment
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge and navigate to https://portal.azure.com.

2. Sign in with the following account:


- Username:  **GAdmin@initialsMMDDYY.onmicrosoft.com**

- Password: The password you created in Module 3


3. Select  **Azure Active Directory**, and then select  **Mobility (MDM and MAM)**.

4. Select  **Microsoft Intune**.

5. Next to  **MDM user scope**, select  **All**, and then select  **Save**.

6. In the Microsoft Azure navigation pane, click  **More services**, scroll down and then click  **Intune**.

7. In the Microsoft Intune pane, click the notification that states  **You’re using Office 365 for device management. Click here to add Intune**.

8. On the  **Choose MDM Authority** blade, select **Intune MDM Authority** and then select **Choose**.

9. In the Microsoft Intune page, select  **Devices**.

10. On the  **Devices** page, select **Azure AD devices**.

11. Next to  **LON-CL3**, at the end of the row, click the three dots (…) and then click  **Delete**. Click  **Yes** when prompted.

12. Repeat step 11 for  **LON-CL4**.



#### Task 2: Join a Windows 10 device to Azure AD, and enroll it in Intune
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, right-click  **Start**, and then select  **Settings**.

2. Select  **Accounts**.

3. Select  **Access work or school**, ** **and then select  **Connect.**

4.  Sign in with the following account:


- Username:  **Abbi@initialsMMDDYY.onmicrosoft.com**

- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


 Wait for the connection and enrollment process to complete and then click  **Done**.

5. On the  **Access work or school** screen, view your settings to confirm your enrollment. Under **Connect**, under  **Work or school account**, you should see the  **Abbi** account listed.

6. Close the  **Settings** window.



#### Task 3: View the enrolled devices in the Intune console
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, in the  **Intune console**, select  **Devices**.

2. Select  **All devices**.

3. In the list of devices, you should see  **LON-CL3**.



#### Task 4: Create a dynamic device group for Windows devices
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, in the Azure portal, select  **Azure Active Directory**.

2. Select  **Users and groups**, and then select  **All groups**.

3. Select  **New group**, ** **and then in the  **Name** box, enter **Windows Devices Dynamic**.

4. In the  **Membership type** list, select **Dynamic Device**.

5. Select  **Add dynamic query**.

6. In the  **Add devices where** list, select **deviceOSType**, and then select the  **Contains** operator.

7. In the  **Value** box, enter **Windows**, and then select  **Add query**.

8. Select  **Create**.

9. Select  **Users and groups - All groups**.

10. Select the  **Windows DevicesDynamic** group.

11. Select  **Members**, ** **and then verify that  **LON-CL3** is listed.

12. Close Microsoft Edge.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Azure AD for automatic device enrollment, successfully joined a Windows 10 device to Azure AD and enrolled it in Intune, verified that you can view the device in the Intune console, and successfully created a dynamic device group in Azure AD for Windows devices.


## Exercise 4: Using the Intune portal
  
#### Task 1: Verify that the Intune classic portal does not open in Microsoft Edge
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open the Microsoft Edge browser, attempt to navigate to https://admin.manage.microsoft.com.

2. Sign in with the following account:


- Username:  **GAdmin@initialsMMDDYY.onmicrosoft.com**

- Password: The password you created in Module 3


3. Verify that you see the message “Unsupported browser or browser mode.”

4. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 2: Verify that accessing the Intune classic portal from Internet Explorer requires Silverlight
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open Internet Explorer, attempt to navigate to https://admin.manage.microsoft.com.

2. Sign in with the following account:


- Username:  **Adam@initialsMMDDYY.onmicrosoft.com**

- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


3. Verify that you are prompted to download Silverlight.

4. Follow the prompts to install Silverlight.

5. Verify you can view the Intune classic portal.



#### Task 3: Verify that you can view managed devices in the classic portal but that you cannot manage groups
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, in the Intune classic portal, select  **Groups**, and then select  **Devices**.

2. Verify you can view  **LON-CL3** in the list of devices

3. Select  **Groups**, ** **and then verify that you see the message “Intune groups are now managed as groups in Azure Active Directory!”

4. Close Internet Explorer.



#### Task 4: Prepare for the next lab
  
- Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab. 


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have verified that the Intune classic portal cannot be accessed from Microsoft Edge, verified that accessing the Intune classic portal from Internet Explorer requires installing Silverlight, and verified that you can view managed devices in the classic portal but that you cannot manage groups.



# Lab B: Managing devices with Intune
  
## Exercise 1: Working with Intune device profiles
  
#### Task 1: Create a VPN device profile
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge, and navigate to http://portal.azure.com. 

2. Sign in with the following account: 


- Username:  **Adam@initialsMMDDYY.onmicrosoft.com**

- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


3. Click  **More services**.

4. In the  **Search** box enter **Intune**, and then in the results, select  **Intune**.

5. Select  **Device configuration**, and then select  **Profiles**.

6. Select  **Create profile**.

7. Enter the name  **Adatum VPN** and the description **Corporate VPN for Adatum**.

8. Under  **Platform**, select  **Windows 10 and later**.

9. Under  **Profile type**, select  **VPN**.

10. On the  **VPN** blade, select **Base VPN**.

11. For the Connection name, enter  **Adatum VPN**.

12. Under  **Servers**, enter the following information, and then select  **Add**:


  - Description:  **Adatum VPN Server**

  - IP Address or FQDN:  **vpn.adatum.com**

  - Default server:  **True**


13. Next to  **Connection type**, ** **select ** F5 Edge Client**. 

14. For the authentication model, select ** Username and password**. 

15. In the  **Custom XML** box, enter the following code:

  ```
  &lt;f5-vpn-conf&gt;&lt;single-sign-on-credential /&gt;&lt;/f5-vpn-conf&gt;
  ```

16. Select ** OK** twice, and then select **Create**. 



#### Task 2: Deploy the VPN device profile
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, on the  **Adatum VPN device configuration profile** blade, select **Assignments**.

2. Verify that  **Include** is selected.

3. Select  **Select groups to include**.

4. Select  **Windows Devices Dynamic**, and then select  **Select**.

5. Select  **Save**.



#### Task 3: Verify that the VPN profile was successfully deployed
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, in the Azure portal, select  **Microsoft Intune**.

2. Select  **Devices**, ** **and then select  **All devices**.

3. Select  **LON-CL3**, and then select  **Sync**.

4. When prompted, click  **Yes**.

5. Right-click  **Start**, and then select  **Network connections**.

6. Select  **VPN**, ** **and then verify that  **Adatum VPN** appears in **VPN** list.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created a VPN device profile, deployed the device profile to a group of devices, and verified that the profile was successfully deployed.


## Exercise 2: Configuring conditional access
  
#### Task 1: Create and deploy a device compliance policy
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, in Microsoft Edge, open the  **Intune console** in the Azure portal if it is not already open.

2. Select  **Device compliance**, and then select  **Policies**.

3. Select  **Create Policy**.

4. In the  **Name** box, enter **Password compliance**.

5. In the  **Platform** list, select **Windows 10 and later**.

6. Select  **System Security**, and then next to  **Require a password to unlock mobile devices**, select  **Require**.

7. Next to  **Simple passwords**, select  **Block**, and then select  **OK**.

8. Select  **OK**, and then select  **Create**.

9. Select  **Assignments**, and then select  **Select groups to include**.

10. Select  **Sales**, and then select  **Select**.

11. Select  **Save**.



#### Task 2: Create a conditional access policy for Exchange Online
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, in Microsoft Edge, in the Azure portal, select  **Azure Active Directory**.

2. Under  **Security**, select  **Conditional access**.

3. Select  **New policy**, and then in the  **Name** box, enter **Exchange Online conditional access**.

4. Under  **Assignments**, select  **Users and groups**.

5. Select  **All users**, and then select  **Done**.

6. Under  **Assignments**, select  **Cloud apps**, and then select  **Select apps**.

7. Select  **Select**, and then in the  **Search Applications** box, enter **Exchange**.

8. Select  **Office 365 Exchange Online**, ** **and then select  **Select**.

9. Select  **Done**, and then under  **Access controls**, ** **select  **Grant**.

10. Select  **Block access**, and then select  **Select.**

11. Under  **Enable policy**, select  **On**, ** **and then select  **Create**.



#### Task 3: Verify that the conditional access policy is working
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open a new Microsoft Edge tab, then and open http://office.com.

2. Attempt to sign in with the following account:


  - Username:  **Ada@initialsMMDDYY.onmicrosoft.com**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


3. Verify that you receive the message “You don’t have access to this.”

4. Select  **More details**. You should see the message “Triggered by conditional access”.

5. Switch back to the  **Microsoft Azure** page and select the **Exchange Online conditional access** policy.

6. In the  **Enable policy** option, select **Off**.

7. Click  **Save**.

8. Switch back to the Office **.**com web site. Refresh until you can sign in successfully.

9. Close Microsoft Edge.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created and deployed a compliance policy, created a conditional access policy for Exchange Online, and verified that the conditional access policy is working.


## Exercise 3: Configuring software updates
  
#### Task 1: Create and assign a Windows 10 update ring
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge, and navigate to http://portal.azure.com. 

2. Sign in with the following account: 


  - Username:  **Adam@initialsMMDDYY.onmicrosoft.com**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


3. Click  **More services**.

4. In the  **Search** box enter **Intune**, and then in the results, select  **Intune**.

5. Select  **Software updates**, and then select  **Windows 10 Update Rings**.

6. Select  **Create**, and then in the  **Name** box, enter **Adatum update ring**.

7. Select  **Configure**, and then next to  **Servicing channel**, select  **Semi-Annual Channel**.

8. Next to  **Automatic update behavior**, select  **Auto install and restart at maintenance time**.

9. Next to  **Quality update deferral period (days),** enter **5**.

10. Next to  **Feature update deferral period (days),** enter **30**.

11. Select  **OK**, and then select  **Create**.

12. Select  **Assignments**, and then select  **Select groups to include**.

13. Select  **Windows Devices Dynamic**, and then select  **Select**.

14. Select  **Save**, and then select  **Device status**.

15. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 2: To prepare for the next module
  
- When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines as they are needed for the next module. You can shut down the machines if needed.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created a Windows 10 update ring and assigned devices to it.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  