# Module 6: Managing devices in Microsoft Office 365
# Lab A: Managing devices in Office 365 (Part 1)
  
### Scenario
  
 As part of your deployment of Windows 10, the management at Adatum Corporation is considering implementing Office 365. You are asked to demonstrate how to use mobile device management (MDM) in Office 365.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to: 

- Add an Office 365 subscription to an existing Azure subscription. 

- Enable MDM and create the default MDM policy.

- Create and test a DLP policy

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change often due to Microsoft Azure updates. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps often, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.



### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 25 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20697-2C-LON-DC1** and **20697-2C-LON-CL3**

 User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.

2. In Hyper-V Manager, select  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, and then in the Actions pane, select  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, select  **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts. 

4. Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  - User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

5. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for virtual machines  **20697-2C-LON-CL3**.

6. On  **LON-CL3**, sign in as  **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

7. To provide access to the internet, start  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT.**


 To complete the labs in this module successfully, you must first complete all labs in Module 2 and Module 3.



## Exercise 1: Obtaining an Office 365 subscription
  
### Scenario
  
 To test Office 365 for your organization, you decide to obtain a trial of an Enterprise subscription plan. You then will configure user account licenses in Office 365. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Obtain a trial Office 365 subscription

2. Assign Office 365 licenses



#### Task 1: Obtain a trial Office 365 subscription
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge, and then navigate to  [**https://portal.office.com/AdminPortal**](https://portal.office.com/adminportal/home).

2. Sign in with the following account:


- Username:  **GAdmin@*&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*.onmicrosoft.com**

- Password: The password you created in Module 3

>  **Note:** The following prompts might vary as the portal undergoes regular development.

3. If prompted, on the  **Don't lose access to your account** page, select **Set it up now**.

4. If prompted, on the next page, select  **cancel**.

5. If necessary, close any welcome messages that appear.

6. In the  **Office 365 Admincenter**, in the navigation pane, select  **Billing**, and then select  **Subscriptions**. 

7. In the details pane, select  **Add subscriptions**. 

8. On the  **Purchase services** webpage, under Enterprise Suite, point to **Office 365 Enterprise E3**, and then select  **Start free trial**.

9. Complete the process to obtain a subscription, and then return to the  **Office 365 Admincenter**. 

10. Verify that your new Office 365 subscription is visible in your subscriptions. 



#### Task 2: Assign Office 365 licenses
  
1. In the  **Office 365 Admincenter**, under  **Users**, select  **Active users**. 

2. Edit the following users, set each user’s location to  **United States**, and then assign the  **Office 365 Enterprise E3** license to each account:

  - Adam Hobbs

  - Abbi Skinner

  - Allan Yoo

  - GAdmin


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully obtained a trial subscription to Microsoft Office 365.



## Exercise 2: Enabling MDM
  
### Scenario
  
 To fully test managing devices in Office 365 for Adatum Corporation, you now must configure MDM in Office 365 to enable device enrollment.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Enable MDM in Office 365



#### Task 1: Enable MDM in Office 365
  
1. In the Admin center, in **Search users, groups, settings or tasks** text box, type **mdm** and click **Mobile device management**.

2. On the  **Set up Mobile Device Management for Office 365** page, select **Let’s get started**. 

 >  **Note:** The initialization process can take considerable time to complete.

<!-- -->

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully enabled MDM in Office 365.


## Exercise 3: Working with DLP
  
### Scenario
  
 As part of testing device management in Office 365 for Adatum Corporation, you want to show how you can help prevent loss of sensitive data by using Office 365. You will create and test a DLP policy in Office 365 as a proof of concept.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a DLP

2. Test your DLP

3. View alerts in the Security &amp; Compliance center

4. Prepare for the next lab



#### Task 1: Create a DLP
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, in Microsoft Edge, in **Admin center**, in navigation pane, expand  **Admin centers**, and then select  **Security &amp; Compliance**.

2. Open the  **Data loss prevention** page.

3. Create a policy with the following settings:

  - Name: Block external sharing of PII

  - Locations: All locations

  - Sensitive data types:
    - U.S. / U.K. Passport Number
    - U.S. Bank Account Number
    - U.S. Driver’s License Number
    - U.S. Social Security Number (SSN)

  - Detect when this content is shared:
    - People outside my organization

  - Overrides:
    - Require a business justification.

  - Override the rule automatically if they report it as a false positive.

4. On the  **Data loss prevention** page, select the policy **Block external sharing of PII**.

5. Next to  **Policy settings**, select  **Edit**.

6. Turn off the  **Low volume of content detected Block external sharing of PII** rule.

7. Expand the  **High volume of content detected Block external sharing of PII** rule.

8. Select  **Edit rule**.

9. Next to  **U.S. Social Security Number (SSN)**, change the  **Instance count min** value to **1**.

10. Repeat the values for the other  **Sensitive information type**.

11. Select  **Save**, and then select  **Save** again.



#### Task 2: Test your DLP
  
1. In Office 365, select the Apps icon, and then open OneDrive for Business

2. Upload the  **EmployeeTravel.xlsx** file from **C:\\Labfiles\\Mod06\\**.

3. In OneDrive for Business, select the  **EmployeeTravel.xlsx** file.

4. Select  **Share**.

5. In the  **Enter a name or email address** box, type **mary@fabrikam.com**.

6. View the policy tip, and then override the policy, providing the business justification:  
**Sharing employee information with company travel agent.**

7. Close the  **Policy Tip** window, and then attempt to share the file again.

>  **Note:** You should see the message:  
**"This item contains sensitive information. It can’t be shared with people outside your organization."**  
 If you do not see this message, wait before continuing. It may take up to an hour or more for the policy to be applied.


#### Task 3: View alerts in the Security &amp; Compliance center
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, in Microsoft Edge, open  **https://protection.office.com**.

2. Expand  **Data loss prevention**, and then select  **Policy**.

3. View the  **DLP policy matches** report.

4. View the  **DLP false positives and overrides** report.

>  **Note:** You should see an entry for the file that you uploaded in both reports, because you chose to override the policy that it matched.  
 It can take several hours for this report to be updated.

5. Expand  **Reports**, and then select  **Dashboard**.

>  **Note:** You should see data in each report, because the file that you uploaded matched a DLP policy.

 


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next lab
  
- Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab in this module


>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have successfully created and tested a DLP policy.




# Lab B: Managing devices in Office 365 (Part 2)
  
### Scenario
  
 As part of their planned changes, the new management at Adatum Corporation is considering implementing Office 365. You are asked to demonstrate how to use MDM in Office 365 for managing devices.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to: 

- Activate and configure MDM for Office 365.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change often due to Microsoft Azure updates. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps often, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.


### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 25 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, **20697-2C-LON-CL3**, and **20697-2C-LON-CL4**

 - User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine environment. The required virtual machines should be running. You will need to start  **20697-2C-LON-CL4** and then sign in as **Admin** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**.

 To complete the labs successfully, you must first complete all tasks in Lab A.



## Exercise 1: Configuring and testing MDM in Office 365
  
### Scenario
  
 To fully test Office 365 for Adatum Corporation, you must now set up MDM in Office 365 and enroll devices. You will then create a device policy and confirm that only compliant devices can access Office 365.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a security group 

2. Create an MDM policy

3. Use a Windows 10 computer to access Office 365

4. View managed devices 

5. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Create a security group
  
1. On LON-CL3, switch to the  **Office 365 Admin center**.

2. In the  **Office 365 Admin center**, create a new **group** with the following properties:

  -  Type: **Security**

  -  Group name:  **Windows Devices**

  -  Members:  **Adam Hobbs**, **Abbi Skinner**



#### Task 2: Create an MDM policy
  
1. Open the Security &amp; Compliance center, in the navigation pane, expand  **Data loss prevention**, and then then select  **Device management**. 

2. Create a new device policy with the following settings: 

  - Name:  **Windows devices**

  - Description:  **A Datum policies for Windows devices**.

  -  What requirements do you want to have on devices? options:
    - Require a password:  **Yes**
    - Minimum password length:  **4**
    - **Block access and report violation**

  -  What else do you want to configure? options:
    - **Block screen capture**
    - **Block connection with removable storage**
    - **Block Bluetooth connection**

3. Choose to **apply the policy immediately**.

4. Add the  **Windows Devices** group to the policy, and then create the policy.



#### Task 3: Use a Windows 10 computer to access Office 365
  
1. On  **LON-CL4**, open  **Settings**. 

2. In  **Accounts**, select  **Access work or school**, and then select  **Connect**. Use the following information to complete the enrollment: 

  -  **Email address**:  **Abbi@*&lt;your_domain&gt;*.onmicrosoft.com**

  -  **Password**:  **Pa55w.rd**

3. Open the **Mail** app.

4. Add a new account: 

  -  **Choose an account**:  **Exchange**

  -  **Email address**:  **Abbi@*&lt;your_domain&gt;*.onmicrosoft.com**

>  **Note:** Wait for a few minutes to give the policy time to apply to your device.



#### Task 4: View managed devices
  
1. Switch to  **LON-CL3**, and then in the Security &amp; Compliance center, open the  **Device management** page.

2. View the list of managed devices.



#### Task 5: Prepare for the next module
  
 When you are finished with the lab, revert  **LON-CL3** and **LON-CL4** virtual machines to their initial state:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In the  **Virtual Machines** list, right-click **20697-2C-LON-CL3**, and then select  **Revert**.

3. In the  **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, select **Revert**.

4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20697-2C-LON-CL4**.

    >  **Note:** **_Do not revert LON-DC1!_**  **LON-DC1** is synchronizing on-premises AD DS with Azure AD.  
  (You can shut down **LON-DC1** and **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**.)

<!-- -->

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully enrolled devices and ensured that they comply with corporate policies for Office 365 access.



## 
  
**Question** 
In the lab, you configured a policy to block access to removable storage. To which device types does this apply?

**Question** 
In the lab, you used groups to decide how to apply policies. If a user has multiple devices and belongs to a group to which a policy is applied, to which devices does the policy apply?



##



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
