# Module 2: Traditional Windows 10 deployment in an enterprise
# Lab: Deploying Windows 10 by using Windows ADK tools
  
### Scenario
  
 As part of a Windows 10 deployment initiative, all existing computers in the Marketing department at Adatum Corporation were reimaged with Windows 10 Fall Creators Update. You were asked to propose a better and faster solution for the new Windows 10 computers that Adatum plans to purchase for the Marketing department. You decided to create and test a provisioning package to configure these computers and to enroll them in Adatum’s AD DS.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Create an answer file and perform an unattended Windows 10 installation.

- Create and deploy a provisioning package.

- Generalize, capture, and update a Windows 10 image.


### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 70 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**,  **20697-2C-LON-CL1**,  **20697-2C-LON-CL3**,  **20697-2C-LON-CL4**, and  **20697-2C-LON-CL5**

 Usernames:  **Adatum\\Administrator**,  **Admin**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In  **Hyper-V Manager**, select  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, select **Start**.

3. In the  **Actions** pane, select **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts.

4. Sign in by using the following credentials:


  - Username:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**


5. Repeat steps 2 through 4 for  **20697-2C-LON-CL1**. 

6. For **20697-2C-LON-CL3** and **20697-2C-LON-CL4**, perform steps 2 and 3, and then sign in as  **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. You won’t start  **20697-2C-LON-CL5** until directed to do so in the lab steps.



## Exercise 1: Creating an answer file and installing Windows 10 on a reference computer
  
### Scenario
  
 In this exercise, your task is to configure an answer file to use for an unattended deployment of Windows 10 on a reference computer. As a starting point, you were provided with an answer file that already has the following settings configured.

 |**Component**|**Property**|**Value**|

 |**amd64_Microsoft-Windows-International-Core-WinPE_neutral**|||

 ||**InputLocale**|en-us|

 ||**SystemLocale**|en-us|

 ||**UILanguage**|en-us|

  **UserLocale**

en-US

 en-US

en-US

 en-US

 **amd64_Microsoft-Windows-International-Core-WinPE_neutral\\SetupUILanguage**

 **UILanguage**

en-US

 **amd64_Microsoft-Windows-Setup_neutral\\DiskConfiguration\\Disk**

 **DiskID**

  **WillWipeDisk**

0

 True

 **amd64_Microsoft-Windows-Setup_neutral\\DiskConfiguration\\Disk\\Create Partitions\\CreatePartition**

 **Extend**

  **Order**

 **Type**

True

 1

Primary

 **amd64_Microsoft-Windows-Setup_neutral\\DiskConfiguration\\Disk\\ModifyPartitions\\ModifyPartition**

 **Active**

  **Format**

 **Order**

  **PartitionID**

True

 NTFS

1

 1

 **amd64_Microsoft-Windows-Setup_neutral\\ImageInstall\\OSImage\\InstallTo**

 **DiskID**

  **PartitionID**

0

 1

 **amd64_Microsoft-Windows-Setup_neutral\\UserData**

 **AcceptEULA**

True

 **amd64_Microsoft-Windows-Shell-Setup_neutral\\OOBE**

 **SkipMachineOOBE**

  **SkipUserOOBE**

True

 True

 **amd64_Microsoft-Windows-Shell-Setup_neutral\\UserAccounts\\LocalAccounts\\LocalAccount**

 **DisplayName**

  **Group**

 **Name**

Admin

 Administrators

Admin

 **amd64_Microsoft-Windows-Shell-Setup_neutral\\UserAccounts\\LocalAccounts\\LocalAccount\\Password**

 **Value**

Pa55w.rd

 You need to modify the answer file and configure the following settings.

 **Component**

 **Property**

 **Value**

 **amd64_Microsoft-Windows-Setup_neutral\\DiskConfiguration\\Disk\\Create Partitions\\CreatePartition**

 **Extend**

  **Size**

False

 99000

 **amd64_Microsoft-Windows-Setup_neutral\\DiskConfiguration\\Disk\\ModifyPartitions\\ModifyPartition**

 **Label**

Windows 10

 **amd64_Microsoft-Windows-Setup_neutral\\UserData**

 **FullName**

  **Organization**

 _&lt;Your name&gt;_

  _&lt;Your company&gt;_

 **amd64_Microsoft-Windows-Shell-Setup_neutral\\UserAccounts\\LocalAccounts\\LocalAccount**

 **Description**

My local Admin

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Mount a virtual floppy disk with the answer file

2. Update the answer file and remove the virtual floppy disk

3. Start a Windows 10 installation on the reference computer by using the answer file



#### Task 1: Mount a virtual floppy disk with the answer file
  
1. On the host computer, use the  **Hyper-V Manager** console to open the **Settings** page for **20697-2C-LON-CL1**.

2. In the  **Settings for 20697-2C-LON-CL1** dialog box, select **Diskette Drive**, and then attach the virtual floppy disk named  **VFloppy.vfd** found at **D:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Learning\\20697-2\\Drives**.



#### Task 2: Update the answer file and remove the virtual floppy disk
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, use File Explorer to format  **Floppy Disk Drive (A:)**.

2. Use  **Windows System Image Manager** to open the **Autounattend.xml** answer file ** **on  **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod02**.

3. In the  **Answer File** section of Windows SIM, verify that the answer file is configured with the parameters that were specified in the first table in the exercise scenario.

4. Use Windows SIM to configure the answer file with the settings provided in the second table of the exercise scenario. 

5. In Windows SIM, save the answer file, and then close Windows SIM.

6. Open  **File Explorer** and browse to **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod02**.

7. Copy  **Autounattend.xml** to **Floppy Disk Drive (A:)**. 

8. Eject the  **VFloppy.vfd** virtual floppy disk from the **20697-2C-LON-CL1** virtual machine.



#### Task 3: Start a Windows 10 installation on the reference computer by using the answer file
  
1. On the host computer, attach the virtual floppy disk  **VFloppy.vfd**, located in the  **D:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Learning\\20697-2\\Drives** folder, to **20697-2C-LON-CL5**.

2. Attach the  **Win10_1907_Eval.iso** DVD disk, located in the **D:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Learning\\20697-2\\Drives** folder, to **20697-2C-LON-CL5**.

3. Start  **20697-2C-LON-CL5**. Verify that you aren’t prompted for any information during installation. While Windows 10 installs, continue with the next exercise. 


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully modified an answer file to use for automating the Windows 10 installation on a reference computer.


## Exercise 2: Creating and deploying a provisioning package
  
### Scenario
  
 In the past, Marketing computers were manually configured and added to AD DS. Your task is to prepare a pilot project in which you will create a provisioning package that will configure all new Marketing computers. The provisioning package should perform the following customizations:

- Rename computers to  **Marketing-**, followed by three digits

- Add a user named  **LocalUser** on each computer

- Add Marketing computers to the domain and create their accounts in the  **Computers** OU

- Add a document named  **Report** to the **Public Documents** folder on every new Marketing computer


 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Review the current computer settings

2. Create a provisioning package

3. Install the provisioning package

4. Verify that the computer was provisioned



#### Task 1: Review the current computer settings
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, use Active Directory Users and Computers to verify that the OU named  **Computers** inside the **Marketing** OU is empty.

2. On  **LON-CL4**, verify that the computer name is  **LON-CL4** and that the computer is in a workgroup named **WORKGROUP**.

3. Verify that  **LON-CL4** doesn't have a local user named **LocalUser**.

4. Verify that the  **Public Documents** folder on **LON-CL4** is empty.



#### Task 2: Create a provisioning package
  
1. On the host computer, use the  **Hyper-V Manager** console to attach the virtual floppy disk **Transfer.vfd**, located in the  **D:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Learning\\20697-2\\Drives** folder, to the **20697-2C-LON-CL1** virtual machine.

2. On  **LON-CL1**, use Windows Configuration Designer to create a provisioning package that includes the following settings:


  - Computer name:  **Marketing-%RAND:3%**

  - Add to the domain:  **Adatum.com**

  - To which OU the computer account should be added:  **Computers** OU that is in the **Marketing** OU in the **Adatum.com** domain

  - Use username  **Adatum\\Ada** with password **Pa55w.rd** to add the computer to the domain.

  - Add the local users named  **LocalUser** and **_&lt;Your name&gt;_**, with the password  **Pa55w.rd**.

  - Add the  **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod02\\report.txt** file to the **Public Documents** folder.


1. Export the provisioning package, and then save it to the virtual floppy disk as  **Marketing Computer.ppkg**.

2. Eject the  **Transfer.vfd** virtual floppy disk from the  **20697-2C-LON-CL1** virtual machine.



#### Task 3: Install the provisioning package
  
1. Insert the virtual floppy disk  **Transfer.vfd**, which is located on the host, in the  **D:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Learning\\20697-2\\Drivers** folder on the **20697-2C-LON-CL4** virtual machine.

2. On  **LON-CL4**, use File Explorer to install the  **Marketing Computer.ppkg** provisioning package that is on the virtual floppy disk.

3. Wait until  **LON-CL4** restarts, and then sign in to **LON-CL4** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

4. Eject the  **Transfer.vfd** virtual floppy disk from the  **20697-2C-LON-CL4** virtual machine.

5. Insert the virtual floppy disk  **Transfer.vfd**, which is located on the host, in the  **D:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Learning\\20697-2\\Drivers** folder on the **20697-2C-LON-CL3** virtual machine.

6. On  **LON-CL3**, use the Settings app to add the  **Marketing Computer.ppkg** provisioning package that is on the removable media.

7. Wait until  **LON-CL3** restarts.



#### Task 4: Verify that the computer was provisioned
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, use Active Directory Users and Computers to verify that the  **Computers** OU inside the **Marketing** OU contains two computer accounts. The names of both the computers start with **MARKETING-** followed by three digits.

>  **Note:** If the **Computers** OU is empty, right-click the OU, and then select **Refresh**.

2. On  **LON-CL4**, verify that the computer name is  **Marketing-** followed by three digits and that the computer is in the **Adatum.com** domain.

3. Verify that  **LON-CL4** has a local account with your name and an account named **LocalUser**.

4. Verify that the **Public Documents** folder on **LON-CL4** contains the **Report.txt** file.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully used Windows Configuration Designer to create a provisioning package and applied the provisioning package.


## Exercise 3: Generalizing, capturing, and updating a Windows 10 image
  
### Scenario
  
 After installing Windows 10 on the reference computer by using the answer file, you need to verify the installation and customize the installation. You also need to generalize the reference computer and capture it in a new image, which will be later deployed to new computers.

You also need to demonstrate to coworkers the benefits of the Windows image file format. You decided to show them how to capture the image, how the single instancing store minimizes the size of the Windows image file, and how to perform offline servicing of an image. You plan to use  **Dism.exe**, but you also want to explore the DISM PowerShell module.

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Verify Windows 10 installation on the reference computer

2. Capture the reference computer image

3. View information about the default Windows 10 image

4. Capture the custom image

5. Service and update the image

6. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Verify Windows 10 installation on the reference computer
  
1. Sign in to  **LON-CL5** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. Verify that Windows 10 is installed.

2. Verify that  **LON-CL5** is installed per the settings that you specified in the answer file. Verify the following settings:

  - Windows 10 licensed to:  **_&lt;Your name&gt;_**

  - Volume C label:  **Windows 10**

  - Volume C capacity:  **96.6 GB**

  - User Admin description:  **My local Admin**

>  **Note:** In the answer file, you specified that the volume should have a size of 99,000 megabytes (MB). 1 GB is 1,024 MB and therefore 96.6 GB is approximately 99,000 MB.

3. Run  **Sysprep.exe**, specify the option to generalize the installation, and then shut down the computer after the generalization.

4. After the  **LON-CL5** virtual machine is turned off, create a virtual machine checkpoint, and then name it **Generalized**.



#### Task 2: Capture the reference computer image
  
1. Add the Windows PE media to  **LON-CL5** by attaching the DVD image file found at **D:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Learning\\20697-2\\Drives\\WindowsPE.iso**.

2. Start  **LON-CL5** from the DVD media.

3. On  **LON-CL5**, use the  **Adatum\\Administrator** and **Pa55w.rd** credentials to connect drive G to  **\\\\lon-cl1\\Images**.

4. Use  **Dism.exe** with the _Capture-Image_ parameter to capture drive C to the  **G:\\Reference.wim** Windows image file, and then name the image **Reference Image**.

>  **Note:** You can continue with the lab while the capture is in progress.


#### Task 3: View information about the default Windows 10 image
  
1. Add the Windows 10 DVD media to  **LON-CL1** by attaching the DVD image file at **D:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Learning\\20697-2\\Drives\\Win10_1709_Eval.iso**.

2. Use File Explorer to view the properties of the  **install.wim** file in the **sources** folder on the DVD drive.

3. Use  **Dism.exe** with the _Get-ImageInfo_ parameter to view the contents of the **install.wim** file.

4. Use  **Dism.exe** with the _Get-WimInfo_ parameter to view the information about the first image in the **install.wim** file.



#### Task 4: Capture the custom image
  
1. Use the  **New-WindowsImage** cmdlet with the  _CapturePath_ parameter to capture the contents of the  **C:\\Windows\\INF** folder in a file named **C:\\image.wim**, and then name the image  **First image**.

2. Use File Explorer to view the properties of the  **C:\\Windows\\INF** folder.

3. View the size of the  **C:\\image.wim** file, and then consider the benefits of Windows image file format compression.

4. Use the  **Add-WindowsImage** cmdlet to add the contents of the **C:\\Windows\\INF** folder as a second image to the **C:\\image.wim** file, and then use **Second Image** as the image name.

5. View the size of the  **C:\\image.wim** file, ** **and then consider the benefits of single instancing when multiple images in the same Windows image file have the same files.

6. Use the  **Get-WindowsImage** cmdlet to view information about the images that are in the  **C:\\image.wim** Windows image file.



#### Task 5: Service and update the image
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, use File Explorer to view the properties of the  **C:\\image.wim** file, including its size and date of last modification.

2. Create a folder named  **C:\\mount**, and then use  **Dism.exe** with the _Mount-Wim_ parameter to mount the second image in the **C:\\image.wim** file to the **C:\\mount** folder.

3. Use File Explorer to view the properties of the  **C:\\mount** folder.

4. In the  **C:\\mount** folder, create a subfolder named **Folder1**. Delete the files named  **1394.PNF**,  **acpi.PNF**, and  **acpidev.PNF** in the **C:\\mount** folder.

5. Use  **Dism.exe** with the _Unmount-Wim_ and _Commit_ parameters to unmount the image.

6. View the properties of  **C:\\image.wim**.

7. Use  **Dism.exe** with the _Get-WimInfo_ parameter to view and compare the properties of both images in the **C:\\image.wim** file.



#### Task 6: Prepare for the next module
  
 When you have finished the lab, revert all virtual machines back to their initial state:

1. On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.

2. In the  **Virtual Machines** list, right-click **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, and then click  **Revert**.

3. In the  **Revert Virtual Machines** dialog box, click **Revert**.

4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20697-2C-LON-CL1**, **20697-2C-LON-CL3**, **20697-2C-LON-CL4**, and **20697-2C-LON-CL5**.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully generalized and captured an image of the reference computer. You should have also performed offline servicing of the image.



## 
  
**Question** 
Why was the Windows image file only slightly bigger when you added the same image to the file for the second time?

**Question** 
When can you use an answer file for an unattended Windows 10 installation?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  