# Module 10: Managing data access for Windows-based devices
# Lab A: Implementing and using Work Folders
  
### Scenario
  
 Users at Adatum Corporation access company data by using company-owned computers that are joined to the domain. Many users bring their own devices to work and would like to access company data by using them. Users with their own tablets complain that when they copy data locally, it is difficult to maintain synchronization with files on the company’s file servers. IT administrators complain that they do not have an overview of devices that users use for accessing company data and that they cannot enforce company security policies on data that is stored locally on such devices. You have decided to implement the Work Folders feature to address these issues.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to configure Work Folders.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 30 minutes

Virtual machines: 

-  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**

-  **20697-2C-LON-CL2**

-  **20697-2C-LON-CL4**


  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**

 User name:  **Adatum\Administrator**,  **Adatum\Adam**, and  **Admin**.

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start  **Microsoft Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In  **Hyper-V Manager**, click  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, and in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.

3. In the  **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts. 

4. Sign in using the following credentials: 
User name:  **Adatum**\ **Administrator**
Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

5. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20697-2C-LON-CL2**. Sign in as  **Adatum\Adam** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**.

6. Start  **20697-2C-LON-CL4**, and sign in as  **Admin** with password **Pa55w.rd**. 

7. For Internet access start  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**. You do not need to sign in to this VM.



## Exercise 1: Configuring Work Folders
  
### Scenario
  
 Users currently are using Offline Files to keep local copies of data synchronized with data on a file server. However, many users are using devices that are not domain members, and they are complaining that they cannot use Offline Files. The IT department is considering implementing Work Folders, but it must confirm that users with devices that are not domain members will be able to use it. In addition, you also must check if Work Folders will be configured automatically on devices that are joined to the domain. You have been asked to implement a proof-of-concept deployment of Work Folders. You will use an internal Certificate Authority (CA) for the proof of concept and install the CA root certificate into the trusted root certificate store of the computer that is not a domain member. Based on the results, the IT department will decide whether Work Folders will meet the company’s needs.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure infrastructure requirements

2. Configure Group Policy settings to configure Work Folders

3. Import the Adatum CA root certificate to LON-CL4

4. Deploy Work Folders

5. Perform Work Folders synchronization

6. Prepare for the next lab



#### Task 1: Configure infrastructure requirements
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, use Windows PowerShell to install the  **FS-SyncShareService** feature by using the **Install-WindowsFeature** cmdlet.

2. Use Server Manager ** **to create a ** **new sync share. Use the following data:


  - Local path:  **C:\syncshare1**

  - Structure for user folders: ** User alias**

  - Grant sync access to groups: ** Managers**

  - Device policies: No policy is selected


3. Use Server Manager to verify that  **syncshare1** displays in the **WORK FOLDERS** section, and that user **Adam Hobbs** is listed in the **USERS** section.

4. On  **LON-DC1**, use IIS Manager to add an  **https** binding to the default website. Use **LON-DC1.adatum.com** as the SSL certificate.



#### Task 2: Configure Group Policy settings to configure Work Folders
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, use the  **Group Policy Management Console** to create and link a Group Policy named **Deploy Work Folders** to the **Managers** OU.

2. For the Deploy Work Folders Group Policy, in the Group Policy Management Editor, browse to  **User Configuration\Policies\Administrative Templates\Windows Components\Work Folders**.

3. Enable the  **Specify Work Folders settings** setting, configure it with **https://lon-dc1.adatum.com** as **Work Folders URL**, and then select the  **Force automatic setup** check box.

4. On  **LON-CL2**, sign out, and then sign back in as  **adatum\adam** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

5. Use  **File Explorer** to create a new ** **text document in  **Work Folders** named **On LON-CL2**.



#### Task 3: Import the Adatum CA root certificate to LON-CL4
  
1. Sign in to  **LON-CL4** as **Admin**.

2. Map the  **J:** drive to **\\LON-DC1\CertEnroll** as **Adatum\Administrator**.

3. Create a new management console with the ** Certificates** snap-in for the local computer.

4. Import the  **LON-DC1.Adatum.com_AdatumCA.crt** file from the ** J:** drive to the **Trusted Root Certification Authorities** store.

5. Close all open windows without saving.



#### Task 4: Deploy Work Folders
  
1. On  **LON-CL4**, use the  **Work FoldersControlPanel** item ** **to set up Work Folders. Use the following settings:


  - Work Folders URL:  **https://lon-dc1.adatum.com**

  - Credentials:  **adatum\adam** with the password **Pa55w.rd**


1. Verify that the file  **On LON-CL2.txt** is available in Work Folders on the LON-CL4 computer.



#### Task 5: Perform Work Folders synchronization
  
1. On  **LON-CL4**, in  **Work Folders**, create a new ** **text document named  **On LON-CL4.txt**. 

2. Switch to  **LON-CL2**, and in ** Work Folders**, verify that the  **On LON-CL4** file is displayed.

>  **Note:** In Windows 10, Work Folders synchronizes immediately. In Windows 8.1, it could take up to 10 minutes for synchronization.
3. Disable the Ethernet ** **network connection by using the  **Administrator** credentials ** **and the password  **Pa55w.rd**.

4. In  **Work Folders**, modify the file  **On LON-CL2** by adding the content: ** Modified offline**.

5. In  **Work Folders**, create a new ** **text document named  **Offline LON-CL2**.

6. On  **LON-CL4**, in  **Work Folders**, modify the file  **On LON-CL2.txt** by adding the content ** Online modification**.

7. On  **LON-CL2**, enable the Ethernet ** **network connection. Use username  **Administrator** and the password **Pa55w.rd** as the credentials.

8. On  **LON-CL2**, verify that files now display in Work Folders, including On LON-CL2 ** **and On LON-CL2-LON-CL2.

>  **Note:** Because the file was modified at two locations, a conflict occurred, and one of the copies was renamed.


#### Task 6: Prepare for the next lab
  
- When you have finished the lab, keep the virtual machines running as they will be needed for the next lab in this module.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Work Folders.



## 
  
**Question** 
Can a user access the same Work Folders from both domain devices and workgroup devices?

**Question** 
Can you access Work Folders content from a device that does not support Work Folders?



# Lab B: Managing Data Access by Using OneDrive
  
### Scenario
  
 You need to configure Windows 10 integration with OneDrive. You will use the Microsoft account that you configured previously.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to configure OneDrive.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 30 minutes

Virtual machines: 

-  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**

-  **20697-2C-LON-CL2**


  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**

 User name: Adatum\Administrator for  **LON-DC1**, and use Adatum\Adam for  **LON-CL2**.

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine environment. All virtual machines should be running from the previous lab.


## Exercise 1: Configuring OneDrive
  
### Scenario
  
 As a part of a OneDrive for Business evaluation, you want to examine the options available for working with files and review the administrative options.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure the OneDrive sync client

2. Verify file synchronization

3. Configure files on demand

4. Recover previous versions

5. Recover a deleted file

6. Share a file

7. Disable external sharing for all users

8. Prepare for the next lab



#### Task 1: Configure the OneDrive sync client
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, run  **odopen://sync?useremail=Adam@yourdomain.onmicrosoft.com** and sign in as ** **adam by using the password of  **Pa55w.rd**. (Where yourdomain is the tenant domain that you configured in previous labs.)

2. Accept the default settings as you configure the OneDrive client.

3. View the contents of the OneDrive folder in File Explorer.



#### Task 2: Verify file synchronization
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, in  **File Explorer**, create a new Microsoft Word document named  **LocalDoc**.

2. Open  **LocalDoc**, add the text  **Local Content**, and save the changes.

3. Use Microsoft Edge to open  **https://login.microsoftonline.com** and sign in as **Adam@yourdomain.onmicrosoft.com** by using a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

4. Browse to  **OneDrive** and edit **LocalDoc.docx** in the browser.

5. Add a new line with the text  **Cloud Content**.

6. In  **File Explorer**, open  **LocalDoc** and verify that **Cloud Content** has been added.



#### Task 3: Configure files on demand
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, from the notification area, open the OneDrive for Business (blue icon) settings.

2. In the Microsoft OneDrive settings, enable Files On-Demand.

3. In  **Microsoft Edge**, on the OneDrive page, create a new  **Excel workbook**, and then add the word  **Cloud** in cell **A1**.

4. In  **File Explorer**, change to list view and verify that the new file  **Book** is not stored locally.

5. Open the properties of  **Book** and verify that the **Size on disk** is **0 bytes**.

6. In  **File Explorer**, open  **Book**, add the word  **Local** in cell **A2**, and then save the file.

7. In  **File Explorer**, verify that  **Book** is now cached locally.



#### Task 4: Recover previous versions
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, in  **Microsoft Edge**, on the  **OneDrive** page, view the version history for Book.xlsx.

2. Open  **Version 2.0** of the file.

3. When prompted sign in as  **Adam@yourdomain.onmicrosoft.com** by using a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

4. Verify that this version contains  **Cloud** and does not contain **Local**.

5. Restore  **Version 2.0** of the file and verify that a new version is created for the restore.



#### Task 5: Recover a deleted file
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, in  **File Explorer**, delete  **LocalDoc**.

2. In  **Microsoft Edge**, on the  **OneDrive** page, restore **LocalDoc.docx** from the **Recycle bin**.

3. In  **File Explorer**, verify that  **LocalDoc** has been restored.



#### Task 6: Share a file
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, in  **File Explorer**,  **Share** the file **LocalDoc.docx** with **Abbi Skinner** and allow her to edit the file.

2. Use the  **Share** dialog box for **LocalDoc.docx** to **Manage Access** and verify the permissions assigned to **Abbi Skinner**.

3. Sign out, and then sign in as  **Adatum\Abbi** by using a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

4. Use Microsoft Edge to open  **https://login.microsoftonline.com**, and then sign in as  **Abbi@yourdomain.onmicrosoft.com** by using a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

5. In  **OneDrive**, in  **Shared with me**, edit  **LocalDoc**, and then add a new line.

6. Sign out of LON-CL2.



#### Task 7: Disable external sharing for all users
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, sign in as  **Adatum\Administrator** by using a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Use Microsoft Edge to open  **https://login.microsoftonline.com**, and then sign in as  **GAdmin@yourtenant.onmicrosoft.com** by using your password.

3. Go to the Admin center, view the properties of  **Adam Hobbs**, and then view the  **OneDrive Settings**.

4. Access the  **OneDrive** files of Adam Hobbs.

5. Open the  **OneDrive admin console**, and then restrict OneDrive sharing to  **Only people in your organization**.



#### Task 8: Prepare for the next lab
  
- When you have finished the lab, keep the virtual machines running, as they will be needed for the next lab in this module.




>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured OneDrive for Business.



## 
  
**Question** 
Can you share files in OneDrive for Business with people outside your organization?

**Question** 
When you delete a file stored in OneDrive for business by using File Explorer, is it recoverable from the OneDrive recycle bin?

**Question** 
Which methods can you use to access RemoteApp programs?



# Lab C: Publishing and using RemoteApp programs
  
### Scenario
  
 Your organization has several LOB apps that cannot be used on mobile computers over a VPN because the latency is too high for the application. To allow mobile users with internet connectivity to run the LOB apps when they are out of the office, you plan to configure RemoteApp programs.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Publish RemoteApp programs.

- Access published RemoteApp programs.


### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 30 minutes

Virtual machines: 

-  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**

-  **20697-2C-LON-SVR1**

-  **20697-2C-LON-CL1**


  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**

 User name:  **Adatum\Administrator** and **Adatum\Adam**.

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In  **Hyper-V Manager**, click  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, and in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.

3. In the  **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts. 

4. Sign in using the following credentials: 
User name:  **Adatum**\ **Administrator**
Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

5. Repeat steps 2−4 for  **20697-2C-LON-SVR1**.

6. Start  **20697-2C-LON-CL1**, and sign in as  **Adam** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.



## Exercise 1: Publishing RemoteApp programs
  
### Scenario
  
 To enable remote access for some LOB apps, you are configuring RemoteApp programs. To do this, you need to deploy RDS, configure a trusted certificate, and create a session collection.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Install RDS

2. Create a session collection

3. Publish RemoteApp programs

4. Create a trusted certificate

5. Configure certificates for RDS



#### Task 1: Install RDS
  
1. On  **LON-SVR1**, use Server Manager to perform an RDS installation with the following settings:

  - Deployment type:  **Quick Start**

  - Deployment scenario:  **Session-based desktop deployment**

2.  **Restart the destination server automatically if required**

3. After LON-SVR1 restarts, sign-in as  **Adatum\Administrator** by using a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

4. Open  **Server Manager** and wait for the installation to continue and until all tasks are successful.



#### Task 2: Create a session collection
  
1. On  **LON-SVR1**, use Server Manager ** **to remove  **QuickSessionCollection**.

2. Create a new session collection with the following configuration:


  - Name: ** RemoteApp Collection**

  - RD Session Host Server: ** LON-SVR1.Adatum.com**

  - User Groups: ** ADATUM\Domain Users**

  - User Profile Disks: ** **Not enabled



#### Task 3: Publish RemoteApp programs
  
1. On  **LON-SVR1**, use Server Manager to view  **RemoteApp Collection**.

2. In  **RemoteApp Collection**, publish the following RemoteApp programs:


-  **Calculator**

-  **Paint**

-  **WordPad**


#### Task 4: Create a trusted certificate
  
1. Open a  **Microsoft Management Console** (MMC) console and add the Certificates snap-in for the local computer.

2. In the  **Personal** certificates node, request a new certificate with the following settings:

  - Enrollment policy:  **Active Directory Enrollment Policy**

  - Template:  **Adatum Web Server**
Subject type:  **Common name**

Subject value:  **lon-svr1.adatum.com**

Alternative name type:  **DNS**

Alternative name value:  **lon-svr1.adatum.com**

3.  **Make private key exportable**

4. Export the  **lon-svr1.adatum.com** certificate issued by **AdatumCA** by using the following settings:


  -  **Export the private key**

  - File name:  **C:\cert.pfx**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**



#### Task 5: Configure certificates for RDS
  
1. On  **LON-SVR1**, use Server Manager to edit the deployment properties in the  **COLLECTIONS** area.

2. Use  **C:\cert.pfx** to add certificates for the following role services:

  -  **RD Connection Broker - Enable Single Sign On**

  -  **RD Connection Broker - Publishing**

- **RD Web Access**

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have deployed RemoteApp programs.


## Exercise 2: Accessing published RemoteApp programs
  
### Scenario
  
 After configuring the RemoteApp programs, you want to test access through both RD Web Access and RemoteApp and Desktop Connections. You are also configuring SSO to avoid unnecessary sign-in prompts on computers that are joined to a domain.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Connect to RD Web Access

2. Configure SSO

3. Test SSO from RD Web Access

4. Configure RemoteApp and Desktop Connections

5. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Connect to RD Web Access
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, use Microsoft Edge to open  **https://lon-svr1.adatum.com/rdweb**.

2. Sign in as  **Adatum\Adam** by using a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

3. Open  **Paint**, and then select  **Don’t ask me again for remote connections from this publisher**.

4. When you receive a prompt, sign in as  **Adatum\Adam** by using a password of **Pa55w.rd**.



#### Task 2: Configure SSO
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, open the  **Group Policy Management** tool.

2. Create a new Group Policy object named  **RDS SSO** and link it to **Adatum.com**.

3. Edit  **RDS SSO** and browse to **Computer Configuration\Policies\Administrative Templates\System\Credentials Delegation**.

4. Enable  **Allow delegating default credentials** and add **TERMSRV/lon-svr1.adatum.com** to the list.

5. To apply the new Group Policy setting, restart  **LON-CL1**, and then sign in as  **Adatum\Adam** by using a password of **Pa55w.rd**



#### Task 3: Test SSO from RD Web Access
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, use Microsoft Edge to open  **https://lon-svr1.adatum.com/rdweb**.

2. Sign in as  **Adatum\Adam** by using a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

3. Open  **Paint**.



#### Task 4: Configure RemoteApp and Desktop Connections
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, on the  **Start** menu, open **Settings**.

2. Search for  **remoteapp**, select  **Access RemoteApp and desktops**, and then configure the following URL:

  - https://lon-svr1.adatum.com/rdweb/feed/webfeed.aspx

3. When prompted, sign in as  **Adatum\Administrator** by using a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

4. Open  **Paint (Work Resources)** from the Start menu.



#### Task 5: Prepare for the next module
  
 When you have finished the lab, revert all virtual machines back to their initial state:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In the  **Virtual Machines** list, right-click **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, and then click  **Revert**.

3. In the  **Revert Virtual Machines** dialog box, click **Revert**.

4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20697-2C-LON-SVR1**,  **20697-2C-LON-CL1**,  **20697-2C-LON-CL2**, and  **20697-2C-LON-CL4**.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have accessed RemoteApp programs.



## 
  
**Question** 
Why is it important to use a trusted certificate for RemoteApp?

**Question** 
How does the user experience differ when SSO is enabled for RemoteApp programs?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  