# Lab Answer Key:  Module 2: Traditional Windows 10 deployment in an enterprise
# Lab: Deploying Windows 10 by using Windows ADK tools
  
## Exercise 1: Creating an answer file and installing Windows 10 on a reference computer
  
#### Task 1: Mount a virtual floppy disk with the answer file
  
1. On the host computer, double-click the  **Hyper-V Manager** icon on the desktop, or select **Start**, type  **hyper**, and then select  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In the  **Hyper-V Manager** console, right-click **20697-2C-LON-CL1**, and then select  **Settings**.

3. In the  **Settings for 20697-2C-LON-CL1** window, in the navigation pane, select **Diskette Drive**.

4. In the details pane, select  **Virtual floppy disk (.vfd) file**, browse to  **D:\Program Files\Microsoft Learning\20697-2\Drives**, double-click  **VFloppy.vfd**, and then select  **OK**.



#### Task 2: Update the answer file and remove the virtual floppy disk
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, click  **File Explorer**.

2. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, click  **This PC**. 

3. In the details pane, right-click  **Floppy Disk Drive (A:)**, click  **Format**, click  **Start**, click  **OK** twice, click **Close**, ** **and then close File Explorer.

4. On the taskbar, select  **Start**, type  **image**, and then select  **Windows System Image Manager**.

5. In Windows System Image Manager (Windows SIM), select  **File**, and then select  **Open Answer File**.

6. In the  **Open** dialog box, in the navigation pane, browse to **E:\Labfiles\Mod02**, select  **Autounattend.xml**, and then select  **Open**. Notice that the  **Components** and **Packages** nodes appear in the Windows Image ** **pane, and the  **Answer File** pane is populated with the installation passes.

7. In the  **Answer File** pane, expand **1 windowsPE**, ** **and then select  **amd64_Microsoft-Windows-International-Core-WinPE_neutral**. In the  **amd64_Microsoft-Windows-International-Core-WinPE Properties** pane, verify that **InputLocale**, ** SystemLocale**, ** UILanguage**, ** **and  **UserLocale** have **en-US** values.

8. In the  **Answer File** pane, expand **amd64_Microsoft-Windows-Setup_neutral**, expand  **DiskConfiguration**, expand  **Disk[DiskID=”0”]**, expand  **CreatePartitions**, ** **and then expand  **ModifyPartitions**. 

9. Select  **CreatePartition[Order=”1”]**. In the  **CreatePartition[Order=”1”] Properties** pane, verify that the **Extend** setting has a value of **True**, the  **Order** setting has a value of **1**, and the  **Type** setting has a value of **Primary**.

10. In the  **CreatePartition[Order=”1”] Properties** pane, select **Extend** setting, and then in the drop-down list, select **false**. Select the  **Size** text box, and then type **99000**.

11. In the  **Answer File** pane, select **ModifyPartitions[Order=”1”]**. In the  **ModifyPartition[Order=”1”] Properties** pane, verify that the **Active** setting has a value of **True**, the  **Format** setting has a value of **NTFS**, and the  **Order** and **PartitionID** settings have values of **1**.

12. In the  **ModifyPartition[Order=”1”] Properties** pane, select the **Label** text box, and then type **Windows 10**.

13. In the  **Answer File** pane, expand **ImageInstall**, expand  **OSImage**, ** **and then select  **InstallTo**. ** **In the  **InstallTo Properties** pane, verify that the **DiskID** setting has a value of **0** and the **PartitionID** setting has a value of **1**.

14. In the  **Answer File** pane, select **UserData**. ** **In the  **UserData Properties** pane, select the **FullName** text box, and then type your name. Select the **Organization** text box, and then type your organization’s name.

15. In the  **Answer File** pane, expand **7 oobeSystem**, ** **expand  **amd64_Microsoft-Windows-Shell-Setup_neutral**, expand  **UserAccounts**, expand  **LocalAccounts**, ** **and then select  **LocalAccount[Name=”Admin”]**. In the  **LocalAccount[Name=”Admin”] Properties** pane, verify the values of the following settings:

  - DisplayName:  **Admin**

  - Group:  **Administrators**

  - Name:  **Admin**

16. In the  **LocalAccount[Name=”Admin”] Properties** pane, select the **Description** text box, and then type **My local Admin**.

17. In Windows SIM, select  **File**, select  **Save Answer File**, ** **and then close Windows SIM.

18. Open  **File Explorer** and browse to **E:\Labfiles\Mod02**.

19. Right-click  **Autounattend.xml** and then select **Copy**.

20. Select  **This PC**, and then double-click  **Floppy Disk Drive (A:)**.

21. Right-click in an empty space and then select  **Paste**.

22. Close  **File Explorer**.

23. On the host computer, on the taskbar, select  **Hyper-V Manager**.

24. In the  **Hyper-V Manager** console, right-click **20697-2C-LON-CL1**, and then select  **Settings**.

25. In the  **Settings for 20697-2C-LON-CL1** window, select **Diskette Drive**.

26. In the details pane, select  **None**, and then select  **OK**.



#### Task 3: Start a Windows 10 installation on the reference computer by using the answer file
  
1. On the host computer, in the  **Hyper-V Manager** console, right-click **20697-2C-LON-CL5**, and then select  **Settings**.

2. In the  **Settings for20697-2C-LON-CL5** window, select **Diskette Drive**.

3. In the details pane, select  **Virtual floppy disk (.vfd) file**, browse to  **D:\Program Files\Microsoft Learning\20697-2\Drives**, and then double-click  **VFloppy.vfd**.

4. In the  **Settings for20697-2C-LON-CL5** window, select **DVD Drive**.

5. In the details pane, select  **Image file**, browse to  **D:\Program Files\Microsoft Learning\20697-2\Drives**, double-click  **Win10_1709_Eval.iso**, and then select  **OK**.

6. In  **Hyper-V Manager**, right-click  **20697-2C-LON-CL5**, and then select  **Connect**.

7. In the  **20697-2C-LON-CL5** window, on the toolbar, select **Start**.

8. Observe the Windows 10 installation process. Confirm that you aren’t prompted for any information during the installation. While Windows 10 installs, continue with the next exercise.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully modified an answer file to use for automating the Windows 10 installation on a reference computer.


## Exercise 2: Creating and deploying a provisioning package
  
#### Task 1: Review the current computer settings
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, on the taskbar, select  **Start**, ** **and then select  **Server Manager**.

2. In  **Server Manager**, select  **Tools**, and then select  **Active Directory Users and Computers**.

3. In Active Directory Users and Computers, in the navigation pane, expand  **Adatum.com**, expand  **Marketing**, and then select  **Computers**. In the details pane, verify that no computer account is present.

4. On  **LON-CL4**, on the taskbar, select the  **File Explorer** icon.

5. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, right-click  **This PC**, and then select  **Properties**.

6. In the  **System** window, in the **Computer name, domain, and workgroup settings** section, verify that the computer name is **LON-CL4** and that it’s in a workgroup named **WORKGROUP**.

7. Close the  **System** window.

8. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, right-click  **This PC**, and then select  **Manage**.

9. In  **Computer Management**, in the navigation pane, expand  **Local Users and Groups**, select  **Users**, and then in the details pane, verify that  **LocalUser** isn’t present.

10. Close  **Computer Management**.

11. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, expand  **This PC**, expand  **Local Disk (C:)**, expand  **Users**, expand  **Public**, select  **Public Documents**, and then in the details pane, verify that this folder is empty.



#### Task 2: Create a provisioning package
  
1. On the host computer, in the  **Hyper-V Manager** console, right-click **20697-2C-LON-CL1**, and then select  **Settings**.

2. In the  **Settings for 20697-2C-LON-CL1** window, in the navigation pane, select **Diskette Drive**.

3. In the details pane, select  **Virtual floppy disk (.vfd) file**, browse to  **D:\Program Files\Microsoft Learning\20697-2\Drives**, double-click  **Transfer.vfd**, and then select  **OK**.

4. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, select  **Start**, type  **designer**, ** **and then select  **Windows Imaging and Configuration Designer**.

5. After Windows Configuration Designer opens, select the  **Provision desktop devices** tile.

6. On the  **Enter project details** page, in the **Name** text box, type **Marketing Computer**, and then select  **Finish**.

7. In the  **Device name** section, in the text box, type **Marketing-%RAND:3%**, review the other sections, and then select  **Account Management**.

8. In the  **Manage organization/school accounts** section, provide values for the following text boxes:

  - Domain Name:  **Adatum.com**

  - Username:  **Adatum\Ada**

  - User password:  **Pa55w.rd**
For the local administrator account, provide the following values in the text boxes:

  - Username:  **LocalAdmin**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

9. In the lower-left corner of Windows Configuration Designer, select  **Switch to advanced editor**, ** **and then select  **Yes**.

10. In the navigation pane, expand  **Runtime settings**, expand  **Accounts**, expand  **ComputerAccount**, and then select  **AccountOU**.

11. In the details pane, in the  **Anytext** text box, type **OU=Computers, OU=Marketing,DC=Adatum,DC=com**.

12. In the navigation pane, select  **Users**.

13. In the details pane, in the UserName text box, type your name, and then select  **Add**.

14. In the navigation pane, select  **UserName** as your name. In the details pane, select the **Password** text box, and then type **Pa55w.rd**.

15. In the navigation pane, expand  **Folders**, ** **and then select  **PublicDocuments**. In the details pane, select  **Browse**, select  **Allfiles (E:)**, double-click  **Labfiles**, double-click  **Mod02**, select  **Report.txt**, select  **Open**, and then select  **Add**.

16. In Windows Configuration Designer, on the toolbar, select  **Export**, and then select  **Provisioning package**.

17. In the  **Build** wizard, on the **Describe the provisioning package** page, select **Next**.

18. On the  **Select security details** f **or the provisioning package** page, select **Next**.

19. On the  **Select where to save the provisioning package** page, select **Browse**, select  **This PC**, and then double-click  **Floppy Disk Drive (A:)**.

20. In the  **File name** text box, type **Marketing Computer**, select  **Save**, select  **Next**, select  **Build**, ** **and then select  **Finish**.

21. In the  **20697-2C-LON-CL1** window, select **Media**, select  **Diskette Drive**, ** **and then select  **Eject Transfer.vfd**.



#### Task 3: Install the provisioning package
  
1. In the  **20697-2C-LON-CL4** window, select **Media**, select  **Diskette Drive**, and then select  **Insert Disk**.

2. In the  **Open** dialog box, in the navigation pane, select **Allfiles (D:)**. In the details pane, double-click  **Program Files**, double-click  **Microsoft Learning**, double-click  **20697-2**, double-click  **Drives**, select  **Transfer.vfd**, ** **and then select  **Open**.

3. On  **LON-CL4**, on the taskbar, select the  **File Explorer** icon.

4. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, select  **This PC**. In the details pane, double-click  **Floppy Disk Drive (A:)**, and then double-click  **Marketing Computer.ppkg**.

5. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box, select **Yes**, ** **read the note on the  **Is this package from a source you trust** page, and then select **Yes, add it**.

6. Wait until  **LON-CL4** restarts, and then sign in as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

7. In the  **20697-2C-LON-CL4** window, select **Media**, select  **Diskette Drive**, ** **and then select  **Eject Transfer.vfd**.

8. In the  **20697-2C-LON-CL3** window, select **Media**, select  **Diskette Drive**, and then select  **Insert Disk**.

9. In the  **Open** dialog box, in the navigation pane, select **Allfiles (D:)**. In the details pane, double-click  **Program Files**, double-click  **Microsoft Learning**, double-click  **20697-2**, double-click  **Drives**, select  **Transfer.vfd**, ** **and then select  **Open**.

10. On  **LON-CL3**, on the taskbar, select  **Start**, ** **and then select the  **Settings** app.

11. In the Settings app, select  **Accounts**, select the  **Access work or school** tab, select **Add or remove a provisioning package**, select  **Add a package**, select  **Marketing Computer.ppkg**, and then ** **select  **Add**.

12. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box, select **Yes**. Read the note on the  **Is this package from a source you trust** page, select **Yes, add it**, and then wait until  **LON-CL3** restarts.



#### Task 4: Verify that the computer was provisioned
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, on the taskbar, select  **Server Manager**. 

2. In  **Server Manager**, select  **Tools**, and then select  **Active Directory Users and Computers**.

3. In Active Directory Users and Computers, in the navigation pane, expand  **Adatum.com**, expand  **Marketing**, and then select  **Computers**. In the details pane, verify that two computer accounts are present, as you installed the provisioning package on two computers. The names of both computers start with  **MARKETING-** followed by three digits.
>  **Note:** If the **Computers** organizational unit (OU) is empty, right-click the OU, and then select **Refresh**.
4. On  **LON-CL4**, on the taskbar, select the  **File Explorer** icon.

5. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, right-click  **This PC**, ** **and then select  **Properties**. In the  **Computer name, domain, and workgroupsettings** section, verify that the computer name is **Marketing-** followed by three digits and that computer is in the **Adatum.com** domain.

6. Close the  **System** window.

7. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, right-click  **This PC**, and then select  **Manage**.

8. In  **Computer Management**, in the navigation pane, expand  **Local Users and Groups**, select  **Users**, and then in the details pane, verify that  **LocalAdmin** and the user with your name are present.

9. Close  **Computer Management**.

10. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, expand  **This PC**, expand  **Local Disk (C:)**, expand  **Users**, expand  **Public**, and then select  **Public Documents**. In the details pane, double-click  **Report.txt**, and then view its contents in Notepad.

11. Close Notepad.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully used Windows Configuration Designer to create a provisioning package and applied the provisioning package.


## Exercise 3: Generalizing, capturing, and updating a Windows 10 image
  
#### Task 1: Verify Windows 10 installation on the reference computer
  
1. Sign in to  **LON-CL5** as **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. Verify that Windows 10 is installed.

2. On the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **winver**, and then press Enter.

3. In the  **About Windows** dialog box, verify that Windows 10 is licensed to you, as you specified in the answer file, and then select **OK**.

4. On the taskbar, select  **File Explorer**.

5. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, expand  **This PC**, ** **and then verify that drive  **C:** is labeled **Windows 10**, as you specified in the answer file.

6. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, right- click  **Windows 10 (C:)**, ** **and then select  **Properties**. Verify that the volume has a capacity of  **96.6 GB**, and then select  **OK**.
>  **Note:** In the answer file, you specified that the volume should have a size of 99,000 megabytes (MB). 1 gigabyte (GB) is 1,024 MB, and therefore, 96.6 GB is approximately 99,000 MB.
7. On the taskbar, right-click  **Start**, and then select  **Computer Management**.

8. In  **Computer Management**, in the navigation pane, expand  **Local Users and Groups**, select  **User**s, ** **and then in the details pane, verify that the user named  **Admin** has the description **My local Admin**, as you configured in the answer file.
>  **Note:** You can install custom apps, such as Microsoft Office, and customize the reference computer before running the System Preparation Tool (Sysprep) and capturing the image. We will skip the customization part in this lab.
9. On the taskbar, right-click  **Start**, select  **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**, and then select  **Yes** in the **User Account Control** dialog box.

10. In the  **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  C:\Windows\System32\sysprep\sysprep.exe
  ```

11. In the  **System Preparation Tool 3.14** dialog box, select the **Generalize** check box, in the **Shutdown** drop-down list, select **Shutdown**, ** **and then select  **OK**.

12. After  **LON-CL5** turns off, select **Action**, select  **Checkpoint**, type  **Generalized** in the text box, and then select **Yes**. 



#### Task 2: Capture the reference computer image
  
1. In the  **Hyper-V Manager** console, right- click **20697-2C-LON-CL5**, and then select  **Settings**.

2. In the  **Settings for20697-2C-LON-CL5** window, in the navigation pane, select **DVD Drive**.

3. In the details pane, verify that the  **Image file** button is selected. Select **Browse**, select  **WindowsPE.iso** in the **D:\Program Files\Microsoft Learning\20697-2\Drives** folder, select **Open**, ** **and then select  **OK**.

4. In the  **20697-2C-LON-CL5** window, on the toolbar, select the **Start** button. When **LON-CL5** starts, press any key to start the computer from the DVD media.

5. In the  **Administrator: X:\Windows\system32\cmd.exe** window, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Net use g: \\lon-cl1\Images Pa55w.rd /user:adatum\administrator
  ```

6. Type the following command, and then press Enter to capture the image of the reference computer:


```
dism /Capture-Image /ImageFile:g:\Reference.wim /CaptureDir:c:\ /name:”Reference Image”
```

>  **Note:** You can continue with the lab while the capture is in progress.


#### Task 3: View information about the default Windows 10 image
  
1. On the host computer, in the  **Hyper-V Manager** console, right-click **20697-2C-LON-CL1**, and then select  **Settings**.

2. In the  **Settings for20697-2C-LON-CL1** window, in the navigation pane, select **DVD Drive**.

3. In the details pane, select the  **Image file** button, browse to **D:\Program Files\Microsoft Learning\20697-2\Drives**, double-click  **Win10_1709_Eval.iso**, and then select  **OK**.

4. On  **LON-CL1**, in File Explorer, in the navigation pane, select  **DVD Drive (D:)**. ** **In the details pane, double-click  **sources**, right-click  **install.wim**, and then select  **Properties**. View the properties of the Windows image file, and then select  **OK**.
>  **Note:** Note that the file size is 3.45 GB (3,709,075,311 bytes) and that there is another Windows image file named **Boot.wim** in the folder.
5. On the taskbar, right-click  **Start**, and then select  **Windows PowerShell**.

6. In the Windows PowerShell command-line interface, type the following command, and then press Enter to view the contents of the  **install.wim** file:

  ```
  dism /Get-ImageInfo /ImageFile:d:\sources\install.wim
  ```

7. Verify that the Windows image file has one image named  **Windows 10 Enterprise Evaluation** and that image has a size of more than 15 GB. This illustrates how the Windows image file format effectively compresses files.

8. You can view additional details about the image by using the image index. For example, you can get more extensive information about the Windows 10 Enterprise Evaluation image by typing the following command, and then pressing Enter:


```
dism /Get-WimInfo /WimFile:d:\sources\install.wim /index:1
```



#### Task 4: Capture the custom image
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the  **Windows PowerShell** window, create a Windows image file that contains the contents of the **C:\Windows\INF** folder by typing the following cmdlet, and then pressing Enter:

  ```
  New-WindowsImage –ImagePath C:\Image.wim –CapturePath C:\Windows\INF –Name “First image”
  ```

2. On the taskbar, select  **File Explorer**. In the navigation pane, expand  **Local Disk (C:)**, and then select  **Windows**. ** **In the details pane, right-click the  **INF** folder, and then select **Properties**. Note the folder size, and then select  **OK**.

3. In the  **Windows PowerShell** window, type the following command, and then press Enter to view the size of the Windows image file:

  ```
  dir c:\image.wim 
  ```

>  **Note:** Although the size of the **INF** folder is almost 40 MB, you will see that **image.wim** is less than 5 MB. This illustrates how effectively the initial files were compressed when they were added to the Windows image file.
4. To capture the same content to a second image in the same Windows image file, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  Add-WindowsImage –ImagePath C:\Image.wim –CapturePath C:\Windows\INF –Name “Second image”
  ```

>  **Note:** Note that the second image, which has the same content as the first image, is adds much faster.
5. Review the size of the Windows image file that now contains two images by typing the following command, and then pressing Enter:

  ```
  dir c:\image.wim 
  ```

>  **Note:** Note that **image.wim** is only slightly larger. The Windows image file format uses a single instance store, so each file is stored only once. Because the files in both images are the same, each file is contained only once.
6. Type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter to verify which images are in the  **image.wim** file:


```
Get-WindowsImage –ImagePath C:\Image.wim
```



#### Task 5: Service and update the image
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, in File Explorer, view the size of the  **C:\image.wim** file, and then note when the file was last modified.

2. In the  **Windows PowerShell** window, type the following two commands, and then press Enter after each command. The first command creates the folder, and the second command mounts the second image in the **image.wim** Windows image file to the created folder:

  ```
  mkdir c:\mount
dism /Mount-wim /WimFile:c:\image.wim /Index:2 /MountDir:c:\mount
  ```

3. In File Explorer, view the properties of the  **C:\mount** folder. Note that the size and contents of the folder are exactly the same as the contents of the **C:\Windows\INF** folder.

4. In File Explorer, browse to the  **C:\mount** folder, and then create a subfolder named **Folder1**. Select and delete the  **1394.PNF**,  **acpi.PNF**, and  **acpidev.PNF** files, and then close File Explorer.

5. In the  **Windows PowerShell** window, type the following command, and then press Enter to unmount the image:

  ```
  dism /Unmount-Wim /MountDir:c:\mount /Commit
  ```

6. Type the following command, and then press Enter to view the size of the Windows image file:

  ```
  dir c:\image.wim
  ```

7. In Windows PowerShell, type the following command, and then press Enter to view the content of the Windows image file:

  ```
  dism /Get-ImageInfo /ImageFile:c:\image.wim
  ```

8. In the  **Windows PowerShell** window, type the following two commands, and then press Enter after each command. Commands show metadata information about both the images in the Windows image file:


```
dism /Get-WimInfo /WimFile:c:\image.wim /index:1
dism /Get-WimInfo /WimFile:c:\image.wim /index:2
```

>  **Note:** Note that the second image has one more folder and three fewer files than the first image. Remember that you created one folder and deleted three files in this task.


#### Task 6: Prepare for the next module
  
 When you have finished the lab, revert all virtual machines back to their initial state:

1. On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.

2. In the  **Virtual Machines** list, right-click **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, and then click  **Revert**.

3. In the  **Revert Virtual Machines** dialog box, click **Revert**.

4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20697-2C-LON-CL1,20697-2C-LON-CL3, 20697-2C-LON-CL4,** and ** 20697-2C-LON-CL5.**


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully generalized and captured an image of the reference computer. You should have also performed offline servicing of the image.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  