# Lab Answer Key:  Module 6: Managing devices in Microsoft Office 365
# Lab A: Managing devices in Office 365 (Part 1)
  
## Exercise 1: Obtaining an Office 365 subscription
  
#### Task 1: Obtain a trial Office 365 subscription
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge.

2. In the address bar, type  [**https://portal.office.com/AdminPortal**](https://portal.office.com/AdminPortal), and then press Enter. 

3. Sign in with the following account:

- Username:  **GAdmin@*&lt;initials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*.onmicrosoft.com**

- Password: The password you created in Module 3

    >  **Note:** The following prompts might vary as the portal undergoes regular development.

4. If prompted, on the  **Don't lose access to your account** page, select **Set it up now**.

5. If prompted, on the next page, select  **cancel**.

6. If necessary, close any welcome messages that appear.

7. In the  **Office 365 Admincenter**, in the navigation pane, select  **Billing** and then select **Subscriptions**. 

8. In the details pane, select  **Add subscriptions**. 

9. On the  **Purchase services** webpage, under **EnterpriseSuite**, point to  **Office 365 Enterprise E3**, and then select  **Start free trial**.

10. On the  **confirm your order** webpage, select **Try now**.

    >  **Note:** If you receive an error saying that verification checks on your payment method have failed, try again in a few minutes.

11. On the  **order receipt** webpage, select **continue**.

12. On the  **Admin center** webpage, in the navigation pane, select **Billing** and then select **Subscriptions**. You can now see the Office 365 Enterprise E3 Trial subscription listed.

13.  Leave the portal open.



#### Task 2: Assign Office 365 licenses
  
1. In the  **Office 365 Admincenter**, in the navigation pane, select  **Users**, and then select  **Active users**.

2. In the user list, select  **Adam Hobbs**. 

3. In the  **Adam Hobbs** window, next to Product licenses, select **Edit**.

4. Next to Office 365 Enterprise E3, click the **Off** switch to **enable** the license.

5. Set the location to  **United States**, and then select  **Save**.

6. Select  **Close** twice.

7. Repeat steps 2 through 6 for the following users:

- Abbi Skinner

- Allan Yoo

- GAdmin


    >  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully obtained a trial subscription to Microsoft Office 365.



## Exercise 2: Enabling MDM
  
#### Task 1: Enable MDM in Office 365
  
1. In the Admin center, expand  **Admin centers**, and then select  **Security &amp; Compliance**.

2. In the Security &amp; Compliance navigation pane, select  **Data loss prevention** and then select **Device management**.

3. On the  **Set up Mobile Device Management for Office 365** page, select **Let’s get started**. 

4. On the  **Need one thing from you before we set everything up…** page, accept the default security group and then select **Start setup**. 

    >  **Note:** The initialization process can take considerable time to complete.

<!-- -->

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully enabled MDM in Office 365.


## Exercise 3: Working with DLP
  
#### Task 1: Create a DLP
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, in Microsoft Edge, open the **Security &amp; Compliance center** if it is not already open.

2. Expand  **Data loss prevention** and select **Policy**.

3. Select  **Create a policy**.

4. Select  **Next**.

5. In the  **Name** text box, type **Block external sharing of PII**, and then select  **Next**.

6. On the  **Choose locations** page, verify that:  
**All locations in Office 365. Includes content in Exchange email and OneDrive and SharePoint documents** is selected, and then select **Next**.

7. Select  **Edit**.

8. In the  **Add** drop-down, select **Sensitive info types**.

9. Select  **Add**.

10. Select the following  **Sensitive information types**:

- U.S. / U.K. Passport Number

- U.S. Bank Account Number

- U.S. Driver’s License Number

- U.S. Social Security Number (SSN)


11. Select  **Add**, and then select  **Done**.

12. Select  **Save**.

13. Verify  **Detect when this content is shared: with people outside my organization** is selected, and then select **Next**.

14. Under  **Restrict who can access the content and override the policy**, select:  
**Customize access and override permissions**.

15. Select  **Require a business justification to override** and  
**Override the rule automatically if they report it as a false positive,** and then select **Save**.

16. Select  **Next**.

17. Select  **Yes, turn it on right away**, and select  **Next**.

18. On the  **Review your settings** page, select **Create**.

19. Select  **Close**.

20. On the  **Data loss prevention** page, select the **Block external sharing of PII** policy.

21. Select  **Policy settings**.

22. Turn off the  **Low volume of content detected Block external sharing of PII** rule.

23. Expand the  **High volume of content detected Block external sharing of PII** rule.

24. Select  **Edit rule**.

25. Next to  **U.S. Social Security Number (SSN)**, change the  **Instance count min** value to **1**.

26. Repeat the values for the other  **Sensitive information type**.

27. Select  **Save**, and then select  **Save** again.



#### Task 2: Test your DLP
  
1. In Office 365, select the  **Apps** button and then select **OneDrive**.

2. Select  **Upload**, and then select  **Files**.

3. Navigate to  **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod06\\**, and then select  **EmployeeTravel.xlsx**.

4. Select  **Open**.

5. In OneDrive for Business, select the  **EmployeeTravel.xlsx** file.

6. Select  **Share**.

7. In the  **Link Settings** drop-down, select **Specific people**, and then select  **Apply**.

8. In the  **Enter a name or email address** box, type **mary@fabrikam.com**, and then press  **Enter**.

    >  **Note:** You should see the message:  
**"This item contains sensitive information. It can’t be shared with people outside your organization."**  
If you do not see this message, wait before continuing. It may take up to an hour or more for the policy to be applied.

9. Select  **View policytip**, and then select  **Override**.

10. In the text box, enter the text  **Sharing employee information with company travel agent**, and then select  **Submit.**

11. Close the  **Policy Tip** window.

12. Repeat steps 6 through 8, and then select  **Send**.



#### Task 3: View alerts in the Security &amp; Compliance center
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, in Microsoft Edge, open  [**https://protection.office.com**](https://protection.office.com).

2. Expand  **Data loss prevention**, and then select  **Policy**.

3. View the  **DLP policy matches** report.

4. View the  **DLP false positives and overrides** report.

    >  **Note:** You should see an entry for the file that you uploaded in both reports, because you chose to override the policy that it matched.  
  It can take several hours for this report to be updated.

5. Expand  **Reports**, and then select  **Dashboard**.

    >  **Note:** You should see data in each report, because the file that you uploaded matched a DLP policy.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next lab
  
- Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab in this module


>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have successfully created and tested a DLP policy.



# Lab B: Managing devices in Office 365 (Part 2)
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring and testing MDM in Office 365
  
#### Task 1: Create a security group
  
1. On LON-CL3, switch to the  **Office 365 Admin center**. 

2. In the navigation pane, select  **Groups**, and then select  **Groups**.

3. In the details pane, select  **Add a group**.

4. In the  **New Group** dialog box, in the **Type** list, select **Security group**.

5. In the  **Name** box, type **Windows Devices**, select  **Add**, and then select  **Close**.

6. Click  **Windows Devices**.

7. In the  **Windows Devices** window, next to **Members (0)**, select  **Edit**.

8. Click  **Add members**.

9. In the  **Search to add members** box, type **Adam Hobbs**, select  **Adam Hobbs**, select  **Save**, and then select  **Close** twice.

10. Repeat steps 7 to 9, and add  **Abbi Skinner** to the group.



#### Task 2: Create an MDM policy
  
1. Open the **Security &amp; Compliance center**, in the navigation pane, expand  **Data loss prevention**, and then select  **Device security policies**. 

2. Select  **Create a policy**.

3. In the  **New device security policy** wizard, on the **Name your policy** page, in the **Name** box, type **Windows devices**.

4. In the  **Description** box, type **A Datum policies for Windows devices**, and then select  **Next**.

5. On the  **What requirements do you want to have on devices?** page, configure the following settings, and then select **Next**: 

-  Require a password: **Yes**

-  Minimum password length: **4**

-  **Block access and report violation**


6. On the  **What else do you want to configure?** page, enable the following settings, and then select **Next**:


-  **Block screen capture**

-  **Block connection with removable storage**

-  **Block Bluetooth connection**

7. On the  **Do you want to apply this policy now?** page, select **Yes**.

8. On the  **Do you want to apply this policy now?** page, select **Add**.

9. From the  **Groups** list, select the group with the **Display Name** of **Windows Devices**, and then select  **Add**.

10. Select  **Next**, and then select **Create this policy**.



#### Task 3: Use a Windows 10 computer to access Office 365
  
1. Switch to  **LON-CL4**. 

2. Select  **Start**, and then select  **Settings**.

3. Select  **Accounts**, and then select  **Access work or school**.

4. Select  **Connect**.

5. On the  **Set up a work or school account** page, in the **Email address** box, type **Abbi@*&lt;your_domain&gt;*.onmicrosoft.com**, and then select  **Next**.

6. On the  **Enter password** page, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then select  **Sign in**.

7. When prompted, select  **done**. 

8. Select  **Start**, and then select  **Mail**.

9. On the  **Accounts** page, select **Add account**. 

10. On the  **Choose an account** page, select **Exchange**. 

11. On the  **Exchange** page, in the **Email address** box, type **Abbi@*&lt;your_domain&gt;*.onmicrosoft.com**, and then select  **Next**.

12. On the  **Let’s get you signed in** page, select your Abbi account and click **Continue**.

13. When prompted, select  **Done**.

14. On the  **Accounts** page, select **Go to Inbox**.

    >  **Note:** Wait a few minutes to give the policy time to apply to your device.



#### Task 4: View managed devices
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, in Microsoft Edge, switch to the **Security &amp; Compliance center**, expand  **Data loss prevention**, and then select  **Device management**.

2. In the  **Select a view** list, select **Blocked**. Check if any devices are blocked. 

    >  **Note:** There may be no blocked devices listed.

3. In the  **Select a view** list, select **All**.

4. View the list of managed devices. 



#### Task 5: Prepare for the next module
  
 When you are finished with the lab, revert  **LON-CL3** and **LON-CL4** virtual machines to their initial state:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In the  **Virtual Machines** list, right-click **20697-2C-LON-CL3**, and then select  **Revert**.

3. In the  **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, select **Revert**.

4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20697-2C-LON-CL4**.

    >  **Note:** **_Do not revert LON-DC1!_**  **LON-DC1** is synchronizing on-premises AD DS with Azure AD.  
 (You can shut down **LON-DC1** and **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**.)

<!-- -->

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully enrolled devices and ensured that they comply with corporate policies for Office 365 access.


##


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  