# Module 1: Managing PCs and devices in an enterprise environment
# Lab: Planning for Windows 10 and device management in an enterprise
  
### Scenario
  
 You need to determine the appropriate technologies to manage Windows 10 desktops and mobile devices. The scenario is presented in the exercise.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you should be able to determine the most effective method for managing Windows 10 desktop and mobile devices.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 15 minutes

This is a paper-based lab and does not require virtual machines.


## Exercise 1: Read the scenario
  
### Scenario
  
 Adatum Corporation has just purchased 200 laptops running the Windows 10 Enterprise edition for their global sales team. Currently, Adatum uses a non-Microsoft configuration management solution. With the shift to Windows 10, management would like to transition away from using the non-Microsoft configuration management solution, and instead wants to use the functionality provided through Microsoft cloud services.

Adatum will be closing several branch offices that members of the sales teams use. Rather than have technicians install software at each branch office, management wants to deploy software from the cloud to the sales team’s laptops. Rather than software and hardware inventory being collected by a non-Microsoft product, management hopes that Microsoft cloud services can provide software and hardware inventory functionality.

 Some members of the marketing team want to stop using laptops entirely and would prefer to use their iOS or Android-based tablets. A factor blocking this shift is that many critical business applications that Adatum uses only work with Windows client and Windows Server operating systems.

 A final concern of management is that sensitive documents can be emailed accidentally to people outside of A. Datum. Management is hoping to use an appropriate Microsoft cloud solution to restrict the distribution of sensitive information so only users with Adatum credentials can access them.

>  **Result**: After reading the scenario, students will have an understanding of the Adatum environment and requirements.



## 
  
**Question** 
Which technology should you use to ensure that documents users at Adatum create can be opened only by other users A. Datum, and not by anyone outside the organization?

**Question** 
Which cloud services can the sales team use for file storage so that they can access the files from anywhere?

**Question** 
Which technology can you use to allow users of iOS and Android-based tablets access to applications that run only on computers running Windows operating systems?

**Question** 
Which cloud-based technology can you use to deploy applications to the sales team’s laptops that are running Windows 10?

**Question** 
Which cloud-based technology can you use to perform software and hardware inventory on the sales team’s laptops that are running Windows 10?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  