# Lab Answer Key:  Module 5: Managing desktop and application settings by using Group Policy
# Lab: Configuring Group Policy policies and Group Policy preferences
  
## Exercise 1: Managing Windows 10 by using Group Policy
  
#### Task 1: Preparing the environment
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, on the taskbar, select  **File Explorer**.

2. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, expand  **This PC**, expand  **Allfiles (E:)**, expand  **Labfiles**, and then select  **Mod05**.

3. In the details pane, right-click  **Mod05-Preparation.ps1**, and then select  **Run with PowerShell**.

4. Sign in to  **LON-CL2** as **Adatum\Beth** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

5. On the taskbar, select  **Start**, type  **policy**, ** **and then verify that  **Group Policy Management** is not listed.

6. On the taskbar, right-click  **Start**, select  **Windows PowerShell**, type  **mmc**, ** **and then press Enter.

7. In  **Console1**, select  **File**, select  **Add/Remove Snap-in**, ** **and then verify that in Available snap-ins section there is only one snap-in that starts with words  **Group Policy**. Also verify that  **Resultant Set of Policy** snap-in is available, select **Cancel**, ** **and close Console1.

8. In Windows PowerShell, type  **Get-Command *gpo***, ** **and then press Enter to list all commands that include the letters  **gpo**. Only three commands are listed, and they are not from GroupPolicy module.

9. Verify that Beth’s desktop is black.

10. On the taskbar, select  **Start**, type  **screen saver**, and then select  **Change screen saver**.

11. In the  **Screen Saver Settings** dialog box, verify that the **On resume, display logon screen** check box is not selected and not grayed out. Verify that if you select any screen saver, you can modify the value in the **Wait** text box, and then select **Cancel**.

12. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, right-click  **Start**, select  **Windows PowerShell**, type  **mmc**, ** **and then press Enter.

13. In  **Console1**, select  **File**, select  **Add/Remove Snap-in**, ** **and then verify that in the  **Available snap-ins** section, there are four snap-ins that starts with words **Group Policy**. Select  **Cancel**, ** **and then close  **Console1**.

14. In Windows PowerShell, type  **Get-Command *gpo***, ** **and then press Enter to list all commands that include the letters  **gpo**. This time, the output is longer and many of those commands are from the  **GroupPolicy** Windows PowerShell module.

15. On the taskbar, select  **Start**, type  **users**, ** **and then select  **Active Directory Users and Computers**.

16. In Active Directory Users and Computers, in the navigation pane, expand  **Adatum.com**, expand  **IT**, ** **and then select  **Technicians**. In the details pane, verify that  **Beth Burke** is listed.

17. On the taskbar, select  **Start**, type  **policy management**, ** **and then select  **Group Policy Management**.



#### Task 2: Creating and linking GPOs
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, expand  **Forest: Adatum.com**, expand  **Domains**, expand  **Adatum.com**, and expand  **IT** OU.

2. Right-click  **IT** OU, select **Create a GPO in this domain, and Link it here**, type  **Background1** in the **Name** text box, and then select **OK**.

3. In the navigation pane, right-click  **Background1**, and then select  **Edit**.

4. In the Group Policy Management Editor, in the navigation pane, expand  **Policies** under User Configuration, expand **Administrative Templates**, expand  **Desktop**, and then select the  **Desktop** node below.

5. In the details pane, double-click  **Desktop Wallpaper**, select  **Enabled**, and in the  **Wallpaper Name** text box, type **\\LON-DC1\Labfiles\Mod05\img1.jpg**, ** **and then select  **OK**.

6. In the navigation pane, expand  **Control Panel**, and then select  **Personalization**.

7. In the details pane, double-click  **Screen saver timeout**, select  **Enabled**, type  **1860** in the **Seconds** text box, and then select **OK**.

8. In the details pane, double-click  **Password protect the screen saver**, select  **Enabled**, select  **OK**, and then close Group Policy Management Editor.

9. On  **LON-CL2**, on the taskbar, right-click  **Start**, select  **Shut down or sign out**, select  **Sign out** and then sign in as **Adatum\Beth** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

10. Verify that desktop is no longer black and that image is displayed instead. This is the image you specified in  **Background1** GPO.

11. On the taskbar, select  **Start**, type  **screen saver**, and then select  **Change screen saver**.

12. On Screen Saver Settings dialog box, verify that the  **On resume, display logon screen** check box is selected and Wait is set to 31 minutes, which is 1860 seconds. Also verify that both settings are greyed out and you cannot change them, because they were set in the GPO. Select **Cancel**.

13. On  **LON-CL1**, in the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, expand  **Group Policy Objects**, right-click  **Background1**, and then select  **Copy**, 

14. In the  **GPMC**, right-click  **Group Policy Objects**, select  **Paste**, and then select  **OK** twice.

15. Right-click  **Copy of Background1**, select  **Rename**, type  **Background2**, ** **and then press Enter.

16. Right-click  **Background2**, and then select  **Edit**.

17. In the Group Policy Management Editor, in the navigation pane, expand  **Policies** under User Configuration, expand **Administrative Templates**, expand  **Desktop**, and then select the  **Desktop** node below.

18. In the details pane, double-click  **Desktop Wallpaper**. Verify that the setting is already enabled, as it was enabled in the source GPO from which  **Backgrount2** was copied.

19. In the  **Wallpaper Name** text box, change the value to **\\LON-DC1\Labfiles\Mod05\Img8.jpg**, ** **select  **OK**, and then close Group Policy Management Editor.

20. In the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, right-click  **Technicians**, select  **Link an Existing GPO**, and in the  **Group Policy object** section, select **Background2**, ** **and then select  **OK**.

21. On  **LON-CL2**, on the taskbar, right-click  **Start**, select  **Shut down or sign out**, select  **Sign out**, and then sign in as  **Adatum\Beth** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

22. Verify that the background has changed and it is now a picture of a flower, as you set it in the  **Background2** GPO. That GPO is linked to the OU that contains Beth’s account. Because of that, it has overwritten settings from the **Background1** GPO.

23. On  **LON-CL1**, in the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, select the  **Technicians** OU. In the details pane, select the **Group Policy Inheritance** tab, and verify that the **Background2** GPO has a precedence value of 1.



#### Task 3: Modifying GPO processing order
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, expand  **Technicians** OU, right-click **Background2**, and then select  **Link Enabled**, which disables the GPO link.

2. In the details pane, verify that  **Background2** GPO is no longer shown and **Background1** GPO has now the highest precedence.

3. In the navigation pane, right-click  **Technicians** OU, and then select **Block Inheritance**. This blocks GPO inheritance on  **Technicians** OU.

4. In the navigation pane, verify that a blue exclamation mark is added to Technicians OU because you set block inheritance. In the details pane, verify that no GPO is listed on Group Policy Inheritance tab.

5. On  **LON-CL2**, on the taskbar, right-click  **Start**, select  **Shut down or sign out**, select  **Sign out** and then sign in as **Adatum\Beth** and use **Pa55w.rd** as her password.

6. Verify that Beth’s background changed to black, as neither Background1 nor Background2 GPOs are applying to her.

7. On  **LON-CL1**, in the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, right-click  **Background2** GPO, and then select **Link Enabled** to enable GPO’s link.

8. In the details pane, verify that Background2 is the only GPO that is listed on the Group Policy Inheritance tab.

9. In the navigation pane, right-click  **Background1** GPO, and then select **Enforced**.

10. In the navigation pane, verify that lock icon is added to Background1 because you enforced the GPO link. Right-click  **Technicians** OU, and then select **Refresh**.

11. In the details pane, on the Group Policy Inheritance tab, verify that Background1 GPO has precedence of 1, even if it is linked to higher OU than Background2. This is because Background1 GPO link is enforced.

12. On  **LON-CL2**, on the taskbar, right-click  **Start**, select  **Shut down or sign out**, select  **Sign out** and then sign in as **Adatum\Beth** and use **Pa55w.rd** as her password.

13. Verify that after a few seconds, Beth’s background changes to the image of a person running, which is configured in  **Background1 GPO**.



#### Task 4: Working with RSoP reports
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, right-click  **Group Policy Results**, and then select  **Group Policy Results Wizard**.

2. In the  **Group Policy Results Wizard**, select  **Next**, select the  **Another computer** check box, type **LON-CL2** in the text box, and then select **Next**.

3. On the  **User Selection** page, verify that you can select only among users that have already signed in to **LON-CL2**. For example, user  **Adatum\Tia** is not listed and you cannot select her, although this user exists in the Adatum domain. Verify that **ADATUM\Beth** is selected, select **Next** twice, and then select **Finish**.

4. In the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, verify that  **Beth on lon-cl2** node is added under Group Policy Results. In the details pane, select **Details** tab.

5. In the details pane, select  **show all**. Scroll down to the  **User Details** section, which is toward the end of the report. In that section, find information that **Background1** is the winning GPO, and that it sets **Screen Saver Timeout** to **1860** seconds.

6. In the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, right-click  **Beth on lon-cl2**, and then select  **Advanced View**. The  **Resultant Set of Policy** snap-in opens.

7. In  **Resultant Set of Policy**, expand  **Administrative Templates** in **User Configuration**, expand  **Desktop,** and then select **Desktop** below.
>  **Note:** Notice that only the **Control Panel** and **Desktop** nodes appear under **Administrative Templates**. This is because you configure GPO settings only in those two nodes.
8. In the details pane, double-click  **Desktop Wallpaper**. Verify that on Settings tab you can view setting that was applied. Select  **Precedence** tab, verify that it lists all GPOs that have this settings configured, select **Cancel**, ** **close Resultant Set of Policy, and then select  **No**.

9. In the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, right-click  **Group Policy Modeling**, and then select  **Group Policy Modeling Wizard**.

10. In the  **Group Policy Modeling Wizard**, select  **Next** twice.

11. On  **User and Computer Selection** page, select the **User** check box, in the **User information** section, select **Browse**, type  **tia**, and then select  **OK**. In the  **Computer information** section, select **Browse**, expand  **Adatum**, select  **Computers**, select  **OK** and then select **Next**.

12. In the  **Group Policy Modeling Wizard**, review the settings that you can configure on each page, select  **Next** seven times, and then select **Finish**.
>  **Note:** In the **Group Policy Modeling Wizard**, you can configure many additional settings, which you cannot set when you run the  **Group Policy Results Wizard**. The  **Group Policy Results Wizard** shows what happened in the past and you cannot influence that, whereas the **Group Policy Modeling Wizard** shows what will happen under some assumptions and you can specify those assumptions.
> .
13. In the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, verify that the  **Tia on Computers** node is added under **Group Policy Modeling**. In the details pane, select the  **Details** tab.

14. In the details pane, select  **show all**. Scroll down to the  **User Details** section, which is toward the end of the report. Verify that no user setting would apply, because Tia’s account is in the **Research** OU and neither **Background1** nor **Background2** GPOs apply to that OU.



#### Task 5: Creating a central store
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, right-click  **Background1** GPO and then select **Edit**.

2. In Group Policy Management Editor, in the navigation pane, expand  **Policies** under Computer Configuration, verify that Administrative Template nodes states that policy definitions are retrieved from the local computer and then close Group Policy Management Editor.

3. On the taskbar, select  **File Explorer**.

4. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, expand  **This PC**, expand  **Local Disk (C:)**, and then select  **Windows**. In the details pane, right-click  **PolicyDefinitions** folder, and then select **Copy**.

5. In File Explorer, in the address bar, select the down arrow, type  **\\LON-DC1\sysvol**, ** **and then press Enter.

6. In the details pane, double-click  **Adatum.com**, double-click  **Policies**, right-click an empty space, and then select  **Paste**. 
>  **Note:** You copied local copy of administrative templates to a domain controller and created central store.
7. In the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, right-click  **Background1** GPO and then select **Edit**.

8. In Group Policy Management Editor, in the navigation pane, expand  **Policies** under **Computer Configuration** and verify that **Administrative Template** nodes states that policy definitions were retrieved from the central store.

9. In the navigation pane, expand  **Administrative Templates** and verify that Microsoft Office 2016 (Machine) node is not present. Expand **Windows Components**, verify that  **Microsoft User Experience Virtualization** node is present, and then close Group Policy Management Editor.

10. On the taskbar, right-click  **File Explorer**, select  **File Explorer** and navigate to **E:\Labfiles\Mod05\admx** folder. In the details pane, select **word16.admx**, press and hold SHIFT, and then select the topmost folder to select all of its contents. Right-click selected files, and then select  **Copy**.

11. On the taskbar, select  **File Explorer**, select  **Policies** thumbnail, in the details pane, double-click **PolicyDefinitions**, right-click and then select  **Paste**.

12. In the details pane, right-click  **UserExperienceVirutalization.admx** file, select **Delete**, ** **and then select  **Yes**.

13. On  **LON-CL1**, in the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, right-click  **Background1** GPO and then select **Edit**.

14. In Group Policy Management Editor, in the navigation pane, expand  **Policies** under **Computer Configuration**, expand  **Administrative Templates** and verify that **Microsoft Office 2016 (Machine)** node is now present.

15. In the navigation pane, expand  **Windows Components**, verify that  **Microsoft User Experience Virtualization** node is not present and then close Group Policy Management Editor.

16. On  **LON-DC1**, on the taskbar, select  **Server Manager**.

17. In  **Server Manager**, select  **Tools** menu and then select **Group Policy Management**.

18. In the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, expand  **Forest: Adatum.com**, expand  **Domains**, expand  **Adatum.com** and expand **IT** OU. Right-click **Background1** GPO and then select **Edit**.

19. In Group Policy Management Editor, in the navigation pane, expand  **Policies** under **Computer Configuration** and verify that **Administrative Template** nodes depict that policy definitions were retrieved from the central store.

20. In the navigation pane, expand  **Administrative Templates** and verify that **Microsoft Office 2016 (Machine)** node is present, because all domain computers use administrative templates from the central store.

21. In the navigation pane, expand  **Windows Components**, verify that  **Microsoft User Experience Virtualization** node is not present because you deleted the administrative template for UE-V and then close the Group Policy Management Editor and **GPMC**.

22. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, select  **File Explorer**, select the  **PolicyDefinitions** thumbnail, and in the address bar, select **Policies**.

23. In the details pane, right-click  **PolicyDefinitions**, select  **Delete**, ** **and then select  **Yes**.

24. In the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, right-click  **Background1** GPO and then select **Edit**.

25. In Group Policy Management Editor, in the navigation pane, expand  **Policies** under **Computer Configuration**, verify that  **Administrative Template** nodes depict that policy definitions are retrieved again from the local computer.

26. In the navigation pane, expand  **Administrative Templates** and verify that **Microsoft Office 2016 (Machine)** node is not present. Expand **Windows Components**, verify that  **Microsoft User Experience Virtualization** node is present and then close Group Policy Management Editor.

>  **Note:** Updates that you performed in central store are not effective, because local copy of administrative templates is used again.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured and linked GPOs, modified the GPO processing order, created a central store, and generated an RSoP report.


## Exercise 2: Configuring and using Group Policy preferences
  
#### Task 1: Configuring Group Policy preferences
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, right-click  **Technicians** OU, select **Create a GPO in this domain, and Link it here**, in Name text box type  **Preferences** and then select **OK**.

2. In the navigation pane, right-click  **Preferences** GPO, and then select **Edit**.

3. In Group Policy Management Editor, in the navigation pane, expand  **Preferences** in User Configuration, expand **Windows Settings**, right-click  **Shortcuts**, select  **New** and then select **Shortcut**.

4. In  **New Shortcut Properties** dialog, configure following settings and then select **OK**:


  - Name:  **Shortcut1**

  - Location:  **Desktop**

  - Target path:  **C:\**


5. In the navigation pane, right-click  **Shortcuts**, select  **New** and then select **Shortcut**.

6. In  **New Shortcut Properties** dialog, configure following settings and then select **Common** tab:


  - Name:  **Shortcut2**

  - Location:  **Desktop**

  - Target path:  **C:\**


7. On the  **Common** tab, select **Apply once and do not reapply** check box and then select **OK**.

8. On  **LON-CL2**, where you are signed in as Beth, verify that currently there is only Recycle Bin icon on the desktop.

9. On the taskbar, right-click  **Start**, and then select  **Windows PowerShell**.

10. In Windows PowerShell, type  **gpupdate /force**, ** **and then press Enter to refresh the GPOs.

11. Verify that  **Shortcut1** and **Shortcut2** are added to the desktop.

12. Right-click both shortcuts, and then select  **Delete**. Configuration was performed by Group Policy preference and user can change it.

13. In Windows PowerShell, type  **gpupdate /force** again, and then press Enter to refresh the GPOs.

14. Verify that this time only  **Shortcut1** appears. You configured **Shortcut2** to apply only once and to not reapply.

15. On the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **explorer**, and then select  **Internet Explorer**.

16. In Internet Explorer, press  **Alt**, select  **Tools** and then select **Internet options**. Verify that the  **Home page** text box has a default ** **value, as well as that  **Start with home page** option is selected and then select **OK**.

17. On  **LON-CL1**, in Group Policy Management Editor in which Preferences GPO is opened, in the navigation pane, expand  **Control Panel Settings**, right-click  **Internet Settings**, select  **New** and then select **Internet Explorer 10**.

18. In the  **New Internet Explorer 10 Properties** dialog box, in the text box in **Home page** section, type **http://www.microsoft.com/learning**.

19. Note that the text box in  **Home page** section is underlined with dotted red line, which means that setting is not enabled. Press F6 ** **and verify that line color changed to green.

20. In  **Startup** section, select **Start with tabs from the last session** radio button, press **F7** to change line color for this option from green to red, and then select **OK**.

21. On  **LON-CL2**, In Windows PowerShell, type  **gpupdate /force**, ** **and then press Enter to refresh the GPOs.

22. In Internet Explorer, press Alt, select  **Tools**, ** **and then select  **Internet options**. Verify that the Home page is now set to  **http://www.microsoft.com/learning**, which you configured in the preference. As preferences are not enforced, you can modify the home page in Internet Explorer. As startup setting is disabled in Group Policy preference, value that you configured in the preference is not applied.

23. In  **Internet Options** dialog box, select **Cancel**, ** **and then close Internet Explorer.



#### Task 2: Using filtering and item-level targeting
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, on the desktop, right-click  **Shortcut1**, and then select  **Delete**.

2. In Windows PowerShell, type  **gpupdate /force**, ** **and then press Enter to refresh the GPOs.

3. Verify that Shortcut1 reappears. If you delete the shortcut, it will reappear each time that GPOs are refreshed.

4. On  **LON-CL1**, in the  **GPMC**, in the navigation pane, verify that  **Preferences** GPO is selected. In the details pane, in Security Filtering section, select **Add**.

5. In Select User, Computer, or Group dialog, in Enter the object name to select text box, type  **beth**, and then select  **OK**.

6. In the details pane, in Security Filtering section, select  **Authenticated Users**, select  **Remove**, ** **select  **OK**, read the dialog, and then select  **OK**. Verify that only Beth Burke is listed in Security Filtering section.

7. On  **LON-CL2**, on the desktop, right-click  **Shortcut1**, ** **and then select  **Delete**.

8. In Windows PowerShell, type  **gpupdate /force**, ** **and then press Enter to refresh the GPOs.

>  **Note:** This time Shortcut1 does not reappear. Although Beth was listed in the **Security Filtering** section, GPOs are applied in the computers’ security context. Because **LON-CL2**, the computer on which Beth is signed in, does not have at least Read permissions to the  **Preferences** GPO, it cannot apply the settings from the GPO.
9. On  **LON-CL1**, in the details pane, in  **Security Filtering** section, select **Add**, type  **domain computers**, and then select  **OK**.

10. On  **LON-CL2**, in Windows PowerShell, type  **gpupdate /force**, ** **and then press Enter to refresh the GPOs. This time  **Shortcut1** reappears, because **LON-CL2** is a member of the **Domain Computers** group and it has permission to read the **Preferences** GPO.

11. On  **LON-CL1**, in Group Policy Management Editor, in the navigation pane, select  **Shortcuts**.

12. In the details pane, double-click  **Shortcut1**, select  **Common** tab, select **Item-level targeting** check box and then select **Targeting**.  **Targeting Editor** opens.

13. In  **Targeting Editor**, select  **New Item** and view different items that you can use as criteria for whether the preference setting will be applied or not. Select **Disk Space**.

14. In  **Targeting Editor**, in the lower pane, in the  **Free disk space** text box, type **90**.

15. Click  **New Item** and then select **File Match**.

16. In  **Targeting Editor**, in lower pane, in  **Mach type** drop down list, select **Folder exists** and in **Path** text box type **C:\Folder1**.
>  **Note:** Filter condition should read: free disk space is greater than or equal to 90 GB on the system drive AND the folder **C:\Folder1** exists.
17. In Targeting Editor, select  **OK**, in the  **Shortcut1 Properties** dialog box, select **OK** and then close Group Policy Management Editor.

18. On  **LON-CL2**, in Windows PowerShell, type the following command to create large file, and then press Enter (number 6 is followed by 10 zeroes): 

  ```
  Fsutil file createnew file1.txt 60000000000
  ```

19. On the taskbar, select  **File Explorer**.

20. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, right-click  **Local Disk (C:)**, select  **Properties**, view Free space, and then select  **OK**. Disk C has less than 90 GB free space.

21. On the desktop, right-click  **Shortcut1**, ** **and then select  **Delete**.

22. In Windows PowerShell, type  **gpupdate /force**, ** **and then press Enter to refresh the GPOs.
>  **Note:** **Shortcut1** does not appear, as disk has less than 90GB free space and folder **C:\Folder1** does not exist.
23. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, select  **Local Disk (C:)**. In the details pane, right-click empty space, select  **New**, ** **select  **Folder**, type  **Folder1**, ** **and then press Enter. 

24. In Windows PowerShell, type  **gpupdate /force**, and then press Enter to refresh the GPOs.
>  **Note:** Shortcut1 does not appear. Although **C:\Folder1** now exists, disk has still less than 90GB free space.
25. In Windows PowerShell, type  **del file1.txt**, and then press Enter.

26. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, right-click  **Local Disk (C:)**, select  **Properties**, view Free space, and then select  **OK**. Disk C has now more than 90 GB free space.

27. In Windows PowerShell, type  **gpupdate /force**, and then press Enter to refresh the GPOs.

>  **Note:** Both conditions from item-level targeting are met and Shortcut1 now appears on the desktop.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module
  
 When you are finished with the lab, revert  **LON-CL1** and **LON-CL2** virtual machines to their initial state:

1. On  **LON-DC1**, where you are signed in as Adatum\Administrator, on the taskbar, select  **File Explorer**.

2. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, expand  **This PC**, expand  **Allfiles (E:)**, expand  **Labfiles**, and then select  **Mod05**.

3. In the details pane, right'click  **Mod05-Cleanup.ps1** and then select **Run with PowerShell**.

4. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

5. In the  **Virtual Machines** list, right-click **20697-2C-LON-CL1**, and then select  **Revert**.

6. In the  **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, select **Revert**.

7. Repeat steps 5 and 6 for  **20697-2C-LON-CL2**.

>  **Note:** Do not revert **LON-DC1**.  **LON-DC1** is synchronizing on-premises AD DS with Azure AD. You can shut down **LON-DC1**.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will configure and apply Group Policy preferences. You will also configure and test GPO filtering and item-level targeting.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  