# Module 9: Deploying apps and managing information access by using Intune
# Lab: Deploying apps and managing information access by using Intune
  
### Scenario
  
 As part of the Windows 10 deployment initiative, the management at A. Datum Corporation is considering using Intune to manage mobile devices. You are asked to demonstrate how to use Intune to manage apps, including deployment and data protection with WIP.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Deploy apps by using Intune

- Configure a WIP policy in Intune.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 30 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, ** 20697-2C-LON-CL3**, and ** 20697-2C-LON-CL4**

 Username:  **Adatum\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In  **Hyper-V Manager**, select  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, select **Start**.

3. In the  **Actions** pane, select **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts. 

4. Sign in by using the following credentials: 


  - Username:  **Adatum\Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


5. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for virtual machines  **20697-2C-LON-CL3** and **20697-2C-LON-CL4**.

6. On  **LON-CL3** and ** LON-CL4**, sign in as  **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

7. For Internet connectivity, start  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT.** You do not have to sign in to this VM.


 To complete the lab in this module successfully, you must first complete all labs in Module 2, Module 3, and Module 8.


## Exercise 1: Deploying apps by using Intune
  
### Scenario
  
 As part of testing Intune for your organization, you need to test adding apps to Intune and deploying those apps to users. In this exercise, you will create an app category, customize the Company Portal, add several apps to Intune, including a Microsoft Store for Business app, and assign those apps to devices and verify they install as expected. You will also install an app from the Company Portal.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create an app category

2. Customize the Company Portal

3. Synchronize Intune with Microsoft Store for Business

4. Add apps to Intune and assign to devices

5. Install assigned apps through Intune



#### Task 1: Create an app category
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge, and navigate to  **http://portal.azure.com**.

2. Sign in with the following account:
Username:  **GAdmin** _@initialsMMDDYY_ ** _.onmicrosoft.com_**

Password: The password you created in Module 3

3. In the navigation pane, select  **More services**.

4. In the  **Search** box, type **Intune**, and then select  **Intune** from the results.

5. In the Microsoft Intune blade, select  **Mobile apps**, and then under  **Setup**, select  **App categories**.

6. Select  **Add**, and then in the  **Default name** text box, type **IT tools**.

7. Select  **Create**, and then confirm that the  **IT tools** category appears in the **App categories** list.



#### Task 2: Customize the Company Portal
  
1. In the  **Mobile apps** workspace, open the **Company Portal branding** blade.

2. Customize the Company Portal branding with the following information:


- Company name:  **Adatum**

- IT department contact name:  **Adatum IT**

- IT department phone number:  **555-555-5555**

- IT department email address:  **IT@adatum.com**

- Company privacy statement URL:  **http://adatum.sharepoint.com/IT/Privacy**

- Support website URL:  **http://adatum.sharepoint.com/IT/Support**

- Support website name:  **Adatum helpdesk**

- Company logo (light and dark):  **C:\Labfiles\Mod09\Adatumlogo.png**

- Do not show the company name next to the logo.



#### Task 3: Synchronize Intune with Microsoft Store for Business
  
  **Add Intune as a management tool in the Microsoft Store for Business**

1. On  **LON-CL3**, in Microsoft Edge, open a new tab and navigate to  **http://businessstore.microsoft.com**.

2. Sign in with the following account:

  - Username:  **GAdmin@** _initialsMMDDYY_ ** _.onmicrosoft.com_**

  - Password: The password you created in Module 3

3. Select  **Manage**, and then select  **Settings**.

4. Under  **Settings**, select  **Distribute**.

5. Under  **Management tools**, next to  **MicrosoftIntune**, select  **Activate**.


  **Synchronize Intune with the Microsoft Store for Business**

1. In Microsoft Edge, switch to the  **Dashboard – Microsoft Azure** tab.

2. In the  **Mobile apps** workspace, select Microsoft Store for Business.

3. Select  **Enable**, and then verify  **English** is selected.

4. Select  **Save**, and then select  **Sync**.

5. In the  **Mobile apps** workspace, select **Apps** to view the list of available apps.

>  **Note:** You should see the apps added in Module 8. It might take some time for the apps to sync.


#### Task 4: Add apps to Intune and assign to devices
  
  **Add Office 365 ProPlus suite to Intune**

1. In the  **Mobile apps** workspace, select **Apps**, and then select  **Add**.

2. In the  **App type** list, under **Office 365 Suite**, select  **Windows 10**.

3. Select  **Configure App Suite**.

4. Select the following Office 365 apps, and then select ** OK**:


  -  **Excel**

  -  **OneDrive for Business (Next Gen Sync Client)**

  -  **OneNote**

  -  **Outlook**

  -  **PowerPoint**

  -  **Skype for Business**

  -  **Word**

5. Select  **App Suite Information**, and then in the  **Suite Name** text box, type **Adatum standard Office install**.

6. In the  **Suite Description** text box, type **Standard Office 365 installation for most Adatum users**.

7. Under  **Display this as a featured app in the Company Portal**, select  **Yes**.

8. Select  **OK**.

9. Select  **App Suite Settings**, and then select  **64-bit**.

10. Under  **Update Channel**, select  **Monthly**.

11. Under  **Use shared computer activation**, select  **Yes**, and then select  **OK**.

12. Select  **Add**.

13. In the  **Adatum standard Office install** blade, select **Assignments**.

14. Select  **Select groups**, and then select  **Windows devices**.

15. Select  **Select**.

16. Under  **Type**, select  **Available**, ** **and then select  **Save**.


  **Add an LOB app to Intune**

1. Next to  **Microsoft Azure**, select  **Mobile apps – Apps**.

2. Select  **Add**, and then in the  **App type** list, select **Line-of-business app**.

3. Select  **App package file**, ** **and then select the  **Browse** icon.

4. Navigate to  **C:\Labfiles\Mod09\XMLNotepad.msi**, and then select ** Open**.

5. Select  **OK**, and then select  **App information**.

6. In the  **Description** text box, type **XML text editor for the IT team**.

7. In the  **Publisher** text ** **box, type  **Microsoft**.

8. In the  **Category** list, select **IT tools**.

9. In the  **Information URL** text box, type **http://adatum.sharepoint.com/IT/Tools**.

10. In the  **Privacy URL** text box, type **http://adatum.sharepoint.com/IT/privacy**.

11. In the  **Developer** text box, type **Microsoft**, and then in the  **Owner** text box, type **Adatum IT**. 

12. Under  **Logo**, ** **select  **Select image**.

13. Select the  **Browse** icon.

14. Navigate to  **C:\Labfiles\Mod09\notepad.png**, ** **and then select  **Open**.

15. Select  **OK** twice, and then select **Add**.

16. In the  **XML Notepad 2007** blade, select **Assignments**.

17. Select  **Select groups**, and then select  **Windows devices**.

18. Select  **Select**.

19. Under  **Type**, select  **Required**, and then select  **Save**.



#### Task 5: Install assigned apps through Intune
  
- On  **LON-CL3**, in  **Access work or school settings**, sync device settings for  **Abbi Skinner**.

>  **Note:** Wait for the settings to sync and for XML Notepad 2007 to install. XML A link to XML Notepad 2007 will appear on the Desktop.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully:Created an app category in Intune.Customized the Company Portal.Synchronized Intune with the Microsoft Store for Business, added Microsoft Store for Business apps to Intune.Added Office 365 ProPlus and LOB apps to Intune, and assigned them to a device group.Installed an app from the Company portal.


## Exercise 2: Configuring a WIP policy in Intune
  
### Scenario
  
 You want to use WIP policies to manage access to corporate-owned data on Windows 10 devices. You want to create a test policy that prevents users from copying corporate data to public websites, and then you want to deploy it to a set of devices. You then want to confirm that the policy works as expected.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a WIP policy in Intune

2. Add protected apps, WIP-protection mode, and corporate identity

3. Define corporate boundaries

4. Create and upload a DRA certificate

5. Create and test the WIP policy

6. Create a wipe request

7. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Create a WIP policy in Intune
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, in Microsoft Edge, switch to the  **Dashboard – Microsoft Azure** tab.

2. In the navigation pane, select  **More services**.

3. In the  **Search** box, type **Intune**, and then select  **Intune** from the results.

4. Open the  **Mobile apps** workspace.

5. Select  **App protection policies.**

6. Add a policy with the following settings

  - Name:  **Windows 10 WIP test policy**

  - Platform:  **Windows 10**

 - Enrollment state:  **With enrollment**


#### Task 2: Add protected apps, WIP-protection mode, and corporate identity
  
1. Select the following apps to protect:

  - Microsoft Edge

  - Notepad

2. Set the WIP-protection mode to  **Allowoverrides**.

3. Set the corporate identity to  **adatum.com**.



#### Task 3: Define corporate boundaries
  
1. Set a corporate network boundary definition by using the following values:

  - Name:  **Domain name**

  - Boundary type:  **Network domains**

  - Value:  **Adatum.com**

2. Set a second corporate network boundary definition by using these values:

  - Name:  **IPV4 range**

  - Boundary type:  **IPv4 ranges**

  - Value:  **172.16.0.1-172.16.0.190**



#### Task 4: Create and upload a DRA certificate
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, right-click the  **Start** menu, open **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.

2. In the  **Windows PowerShell** console, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Cipher /rc:\users\admin\documents\ADATUMDRA
  ```

3. When prompted, type  **Pa55w.rd**, ** **and then confirm the password.

4. Switch to Microsoft Edge, and under  **Data protection**, select the  **Browse** icon.

5. Browse to the  **Documents** folder, select the **ADATUMDRA.cer** file, and then select **Open**.

6. Under  **Show the enterprise data protection icon**, select  **On**. ** **

7. Select  **OK**, ** **and then select  **Create**.



#### Task 5: Create and test the WIP policy
  
1. Assign the policy to the  **Windows devices** group.

2. On  **LON-CL3**, in  **Access work or school settings**, sync device settings for  **Abbi Skinner**.
>  **Note:** Wait for the settings to sync.
3. In Edge, navigate to  _initialsMMDDYY_ ** _.sharepoint.com_**.

4. If prompted, sign in with the credentials:


  - Usename:  **Abbi@** _initialsMMDDYY_ ** _.onmicrosoft.com_**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


5. Start Internet Explorer and navigate to  _initialsMMDDYY_ ** _.sharepoint.com_**.

>  **Note:** You should not be able to successfully navigate to the SharePoint site in internet explorer because it is not an allowed app.


#### Task 6: Create a wipe request
  
1. In the  **Devices** workspace, open the **All devices** blade.

2. Select  **LON-CL3**.

3. Select  **Remove company data**.

4. View the progress of the wipe request.

5. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 7: Prepare for the next module
  
- After you complete the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. You can shut down the virtual machines.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully configured and deployed a WIP policy by using Intune.



## 
  
**Question** 
In the lab, you created a custom Office suite and assigned it to users. In your organization, can you think of times you would create different Office suite installations for different users?

**Question** 
In the lab, you set the corporate identity to  **adatum.com**. In this field, you can list multiple domains. In which situations would you use multiple domains?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  