# Lab Answer Key:  Module 3: Managing Windows 10 sign-in and identity
# Lab: Extending on-premises AD DS to Azure AD
  
## Exercise 1: Activating a trial Azure subscription and creating an Azure AD tenant
  
#### Task 1: Sign up for a Microsoft account
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, sign in as  **Admin** with password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. On the desktop, on the taskbar, select the  **Microsoft Edge** icon.

3. In the Microsoft Edge address bar, type  **login.live.com**.

4. In the  **Sign in** box, look for the “**No account?**” text, and then select the **Create one!** link.

5. On the  **Create account** page, fill in the required fields with appropriate data. Create a new email address in the Outlook.com domain.

>  **Note:** Make sure that you write down the username that you chose. For example, you can choose a username in the **_&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;Date&gt;_@outlook.com** format, as an example, if your name is **Don Funk** and you created a Microsoft account on **December 18, 2017**, your account would be: **DF121817@outlook.com**. Make sure to **_note the password that you select_**. We recommend that you type your working email address in the  **Alternate email address** text box.

6. In the  **Create password** text box, type a password, and then select **Next**.

7. On the  **Add details** page, type your first and last names, and then select **Next**.

8. Select the correct  **Country/region** and **Birthdate**, and then select  **Next**.

9. On the  **Create account** page, type the text displayed in the image, and then select **Next**.

10. On the  **Account** page, select **View inbox**.

11. Select the right arrow, select an appropriate  **Language** and **Time zone**, then select the right arrow five times to complete the setup wizard.

12. Select  **Let’s go**.

13. Ensure that your Inbox opens.



#### Task 2: Create a trial Azure subscription
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open a new tab in the Microsoft Edge browser by selecting the plus sign ( **+**) icon.

2. In Microsoft Edge, in the address bar, type  [**http://aka.ms/cu92vo**](http://aka.ms/cu92vo), and then press Enter.

3. On the  **Ready to get started** page, select **Start**.

4. On the  **Azure Pass** page, sign in with the Microsoft account that you created in the previous task.

5. On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, verify your details, and then select **Confirm Microsoft Account**.

6. In the  **Enter Promo code** text box, type your Azure Pass code, and then select **Claim Promo Code**.

7. On the  **Azure Pass** page, select **Activate**. A new tab will open in the Microsoft Edge browser.

8. On the  **Sign up** page, fill out your contact phone number data, select **I agree to the subscription agreement, offer details, and privacy statement**, and then select  **Signup**.

9. Wait for a few minutes until your Azure subscription has been created.

10. Select  **Or get started with your Azure subscription**, and then verify that a new Azure portal opens.

>  **Note:** If an authentication error occurs, sign out, close all browser windows, and then sign in at [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com).

11. If necessary, in the  **Welcome to Microsoft Azure** window, click **Maybe later**.

12. You can browse through the portal to see the available options, but don’t make any changes.

13. Close the browser window, and then when prompted, select  **Close all**.



#### Task 3: Review the default Azure AD directory settings
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com).

2. On the  **Sign-in** page, sign in with the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure subscription.

3. In the navigation pane, select  **Azure Active Directory**, and then select  **Overview**.

4. Read the name of the default directory above the  **Overview** link. This name is based on the email address that was used to create the tenant.

5. Select  **Custom domain names**, and then read the existing name. Record the existing name because it will be required in the next exercise. 

> **Note:** The name of your domain will be based on the email address provided during creation in the **&lt;_YourInitials_&gt;&lt;_Date_&gt;outlook.onmicrosoft.com** format. In the following exercises, you will need to edit **"*yourtenant*.onmicrosoft.com"** to match this domain name.

6. Leave the Azure portal open for the next exercise.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant.



## Exercise 2: Managing Azure AD users and groups
  
#### Task 1: Create a standard user
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, on the Azure portal, in the navigation pane, select  **Azure Active Directory**, and then select  **Users**.

2. In the  **Users - All users** blade, select  **+ New user**.

3. In the  **User** blade, enter the following information:


  - Name:  **Deanna Sheppard**

  - Username:  **Deanna@*yourtenant*.onmicrosoft.com**


4. Select  **Profile**, enter the following information, and then select  **OK**:


  - First name:  **Deanna**

  - Last name:  **Sheppard**

  - Department:  **IT**


5. Select the  **Show Password** check box, and note the password for later use.

6. Select  **Create**.



#### Task 2: Create a global administrator
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, on the Azure portal, select  **+ New user**.

2. In the  **User** blade, enter the following information:


  - Name:  **GAdmin**

  - Username:  **GAdmin@*yourtenant*.onmicrosoft.com**


3. Select  **Directory role**, select  **Global administrator**, and then select  **OK**.

4. Select the  **Show Password** check box, and then note the password for later use.

5. Select  **Create**.

6. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 3: Add a Microsoft Enterprise Mobility + Security E5 trial subscription
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge.

2. In Microsoft Edge, in the address bar, type  [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com), and then press Enter.

3. Select  **Use another account**, and then sign in as  **GAdmin@*yourtenant*.onmicrosoft.com**.

4. When prompted, update the password for GAdmin, and then select  **Sign in**. Note the password that you use.

5. If prompted to take a tour, select  **Maybe later**.

6. On the Azure portal, in the navigation pane, select  **Azure Active Directory**, and then select  **Quick start**.

7. Under  **Getting started with Azure AD**, select  **Get a free trial for Azure AD Premium**.

8. In the  **ENTERPRISE MOBILITY + SECURITY E5** box, select **Free trial**.

9. In the  **Activate Enterprise Mobility + Security E5 trial** blade, select **Activate**.



#### Task 4: Create a group with static membership
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, on the Azure portal, in the navigation pane, select  **Azure Active Directory**, and then select  **Groups**.

2. In the  **Groups - All groups** blade, select  **+ New group**.

3. In the  **Group** blade, enter the following information:


  - Name:  **StaticGroup**

  - Membership type:  **Assigned**


4. Select  **Members**.

5. In the  **Members** area, select **Deanna Sheppard** and **GAdmin**, and then select  **Select**.

6. In the  **Group** area, select **Create**.

7. Close the  **Group** blade.



#### Task 5: Create a group with dynamic membership
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, on the Azure portal, in the navigation pane, select  **Azure Active Directory**, and then select  **Groups**.

2. In the  **Groups - All groups** blade, select  **+ New group**.

3. In the  **Group** blade, enter the following information:


  - Name:  **DynamicGroup**

  - Membership type:  **DynamicUser**


4. Select  **Add dynamic query**.

5. In the  **Dynamic membership rules** area, create a simple rule to add users where **department Equals IT**, and then select  **Add query**.

6. In the  **Group** blade, select **Create**.

7. Close the  **Group** blade.

8. In the  **Groups - All groups** blade, select **DynamicGroup**.

9. In the  **DynamicGroup** area, select **Members**, and then verify that Deanna Sheppard is a member.

	>  **Note:** If no DynamicGroup members are listed, wait a few minutes, and then refresh the membership list. It can take several minutes for the membership to populate.

<!-- -->

>  **Result**: After this exercise, you will have successfully created cloud-based users and groups.



## Exercise 3: Configuring and enabling directory synchronization
  
#### Task 1: Update UPNs to match Azure AD
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, select  **File Explorer**, and then browse to  **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod03**.

2. Right-click  **UpdateUPN.ps1**, and then select  **Edit**.

3. On line three of the script, replace  **_yourtenant_** with the name of your Azure AD tenant.

4. Select  **Save**, and then press  **F5** to run the script.

5. When the script completes, close Windows PowerShell Integrated Scripting Environment (ISE) and File Explorer.

6. In  **Server Manager**, select  **Tools**, and then select  **Active Directory Administrative Center**.

7. In Active Directory Administrative Center, in the navigation pane, select  **Adatum (local)**, and then double-click  **IT**.

8. Select  **Abbi Skinner**, and then, in the Tasks pane, select  **Properties**.

9. Verify that  **User UPN logon** contains your domain name for Azure AD, and then select **Cancel**.

10. Close Active Directory Administrative Center.



#### Task 2: Install Azure AD Connect
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, select  **File Explorer**, browse to  **E:\\Labfiles**, and then double-click  **AzureADConnect.msi**.

2. In the  **Open File - Security Warning** dialog box, select **Run**.

3. In the  **Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect** window, select **I agree to the license terms and privacy notice**, and then select  **Continue**.

4. On the  **Express Settings** page, read the information, and then select **Use express settings**.

5. On the  **Connect to Azure AD** page, in the **USERNAME** text box, type **GAdmin@*yourtenant*.onmicrosoft.com**.

6. In the  **PASSWORD** text box, type the password, and then select **Next**.

7. On the  **Connect to AD DS** page, in the **USERNAME** text box, type **Adatum\\Administrator**.

8. In the  **PASSWORD** text box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then select  **Next**.

9. On the  **Azure AD sign-in configuration** page, select **Continue without any verified domains**, and then select  **Next**.

>  **Note:** In a typical deployment, a domain name that is registered in Domain Name System (DNS) is used and there is no requirement to proceed without verified domains. This occurs because of limitations of the lab environment.

10. On the  **Ready to configure** page, select **Start the synchronization process when configuration completes**, and then select  **Install**.

11. On the  **Configuration complete** page, select **Exit**.



#### Task 3: Verify that Azure AD Connect has populated Azure AD
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, on the Azure portal, in the navigation pane, select  **Azure Active Directory**, and then select  **Azure AD Connect**.

2. Verify that the  **Sync Status** is **Enabled**.

>  **Note:** If **Sync Status** is **Not Enabled**, then wait a few moments and refresh the page.

3. In the  **Azure AD Connect** area, select **Users and groups**, and then on the  **Overview** page, verify that new users and groups have been added.

4. Select  **All groups**, and then select  **DynamicGroup**.

5. In the  **Members** area, verify that new members have been added.

6. Close Microsoft Edge.




## Exercise 4: Joining a Windows 10 computer to Azure AD
  
#### Task 1: Join a Windows 10 computer to Azure AD
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, select  **Settings** in the **Start** menu.

2. In the  **Settings** window, select **Accounts**.

3. In the  **Accounts** window, in the navigation pane, select **Access work or school**, and then select  **Connect**.

4. On the  **Set up a work or school account** page, select **Join this device to Azure Active Directory**.

5. On the  **Let's get you signed in** page, type **Aidan@*yourtenant*.onmicrosoft.com**. For the password, type  **Pa55w.rd** and then select **Sign in**.

6. At the  **Make sure this is your organization** prompt, select **Join**.

7. Select  **Done**, and then close the  **Settings** window.

8. On the desktop, on the taskbar, select the  **Microsoft Edge** icon.

9. In Microsoft Edge, in the address, bar, type  **portal.azure.com**, and then press Enter.

10. On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, sign in as **GAdmin@*yourtenant*.onmicrosoft.com**.

11. On the Azure portal, in the navigation pane, select  **Azure Active Directory**, and then select  **Devices**.

12. Select  **LON-CL3**, and then verify that the owner of  **LON-CL3** is Aidan Norman.

13. Close Microsoft Edge.

14. Restart  **LON-CL3**.

15. On the sign-in screen, select  **Other user**, and then sign in as  **Aidan@*yourtenant*.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

16. Ensure that you can sign in. This demonstrates that your computer now trusts Azure AD.

17. Create a PIN if prompted to do so.

18. Verify your identity if prompted to do so.



#### Task 2: Verify that the computer has the Azure AD certificates
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, select  **Start**, type  **mmc.exe**, and then press  **Enter**.

2. In the  **User Account Control** window, select **Yes**.

3. In the  **Console1** window, select **File**, and then select  **Add/Remove Snap-in**.

4. On the  **Add or Remove Snap-ins** page, select **Certificates** from the list, and then select **Add**.

5. On the  **Certificatessnap-in** page, select **Computer account**, and then select  **Next**.

6. On the  **Select Computer** page, select **Finish**, and then select  **OK**.

7. In the  **Console1** window, expand **Certificates**, expand  **Personal**, and then select the  **Certificates** folder.

8. Ensure that you see certificates that were issued by  **MS-Organization-Access** and **MS-Organization-P2P-Access**.

9. Close all open windows, and don’t save the changes.



#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module
  
- When you have finished the lab, shut down all running virtual machines. Do not revert the machines as they will be needed in the current state for the next module.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully added your Windows 10 computer to Azure AD.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  