# Module 8: Configuring and using Microsoft Store for Business
# Lab: Deploying apps and Windows 10 by using Microsoft Store for Business
  
### Scenario
  
 You are the enterprise administrator for Adatum Corporation, which recently implemented Azure AD. Company management has heard about Windows AutoPilot and is considering it for employees who work remotely. Management has also learned about several modern Windows apps and has asked you to research and test the implementation of these apps in the organization.

You located the apps in Microsoft Store, and you want to deploy them to company employees by using Microsoft Store for Business. Because Adatum doesn’t have Microsoft Store for Business yet, you first need to sign up for it. After that, you need to perform basic customization, delegate permissions in the store to several junior administrators, explore licensing options, and test how to manage and deploy apps from Microsoft Store for Business to company employees. You also plan to test Windows AutoPilot for deploying several new Windows 10 devices and joining them to the Adatum Azure AD tenant.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Sign up for Microsoft Store for Business and perform initial configuration.

- Implement Windows AutoPilot and use it for deploying Windows 10 devices

- Use Microsoft Store for Business to deploy apps.


### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 70 minutes

Virtual machines:  **LON-DC1**,  **LON-CL1**,  **LON-CL2**, **LON-CL5**, and **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**

- Username on  **LON-DC1**,  **LON-CL1** and **LON-CL2**:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

- Username on  **LON-CL5**: **Admin**

- Password: **Pa55w.rd**

 Start  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, but don’t sign in to it.

 For this lab, you will use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In  **Hyper-V Manager**, select  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, and then in the Actions pane, select  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, select  **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts.

4. Sign in by using the following credentials:

  - Username:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

5. Repeat steps 2-4 for  **20697-2C-LON-CL1** and **20697-2C-LON-CL2**.

6. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20697-2C-LON-CL5** and **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**.

7.  Sign in to  **LON-CL5** by using the following credentials:

  - Username:  **Admin**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**



## Exercise 1: Signing up and managing Microsoft Store for Business
  
### Scenario
  
 Adatum is already using Azure AD, but it doesn’t have Microsoft Store for Business. Before you can test Microsoft Store for Business features, you must sign up for it. After that, you want to explore the store and rename the private store to  **Adatum Store**.

After you sign up for Microsoft Store for Business and customize the private store, you want to delegate permissions for Microsoft Store for Business to your coworkers. You want to test the differences between user roles, obtain several apps, and add them to the private store. As part of the project, you also want to view how company employees can access the Adatum private store from their Windows 10 devices.

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Sign up for Microsoft Store for Business and perform initial configuration

2. Work with roles in Microsoft Store for Business

3. Access Microsoft Store for Business



#### Task 1: Sign up for Microsoft Store for Business and perform initial configuration
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, use Microsoft Edge to browse to Microsoft Store for Business at  [**https://www.microsoft.com/business-store**](https://www.microsoft.com/business-store).

2. Sign in to Microsoft Store for Business as  **GAdmin@*&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com** with the password that you configured in module 3.

    >  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 3, “Managing Windows 10 sign-in and identity,” you created a Microsoft account in the **_&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;_@outlook.com** format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on December 18, 2017, your account should be DF121817@outlook.com. In this case, you should sign in as  **GAdmin@DF121817outlook.onmicrosoft.com**.

3. Accept the  **Microsoft Store for Business and Education Services Agreement**.

4. On the  **Microsoft Store for Business** page, select **Manage**, and then verify that the Sway, OneNote, PowerPoint Mobile, Excel Mobile, and Word Mobile apps show a status of  **Adding** to your private store.

    >  **Note:** When you sign up for Microsoft Store for Business, the portal automatically adds Sway, OneNote, PowerPoint Mobile, Excel Mobile, and Word Mobile to your private store. It might take up to 36 hours for the apps to appear in the private store. These apps are automatically available for you to deploy to users.

5. On  **Settings** page, turn on the **Show offline apps** option.

6. On the menu bar, verify that the private store is named  **Default Directory**.

7. On the  **Distribute** tab, rename the private store **Adatum Store**, and then verify that  **Adatum Store** is listed on the toolbar.

8. Locate where you can configure Device Guard signer policies.

    >  **Note:** When configured, these policies allow apps from Microsoft Store for Business to run on a device that is protected by Windows Defender Device Guard.


#### Task 2: Work with roles in Microsoft Store for Business
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, use Microsoft Edge to assign **Ada Russell** the **Admin** role in Microsoft Store for Business.

2. Assign **Holly Spencer** the **Purchaser** role in Microsoft Store for Business.

3. Verify that the following users have roles in Microsoft Store for Business:

  - GAdmin:  **Global Admin**

  - Ada Russell:  **Admin**

  - Holly Spencer: **Purchaser**

4. On  **LON-CL1**, use Internet Explorer to browse to Microsoft Store for Business at  [**https://www.microsoft.com/business-store**](https://www.microsoft.com/business-store).

5. Sign in to Microsoft Store for Business as  **Holly@*&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

    >  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 3, “Managing Windows 10 sign-in and identity,” you created a Microsoft account in the **_&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;_@outlook.com** format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on December 18, 2017, your account should be DF121817@outlook.com. In this case, you should sign in as  **Holly@DF121817outlook.onmicrosoft.com**.

6. Verify that Holly has only the  **Quotes**, **Products &amp; services**,  **My organization**,  **Benefits**,  **Billing, Order history**, **Partners**, and  **Support** options available in Microsoft Store for Business.

    >  **Note:** Holly has the Purchaser role assigned. Purchaser doesn’t have access to **Devices**,  **Permissions**, and  **Settings**.

7. Locate the **Translator** app in Microsoft Store for Business, and then get the app. Notice the ellipsis (**…**) near the  **Install** button.

8. Verify that when you select the ellipsis (**…**) button, only the  **Manage** option is available. Notice that **Licensing type** is set to **Online**, but the  **Offline** licensing type also is available.

    >  **Note:** Holly has the Purchaser role assigned. Purchaser can’t add apps to the private store.

9. On  **LON-CL2**, verify that the user GAdmin has the  **Quotes**, **Products &amp; services**,  **My organization**,  **Benefits**,  **Devices**,  **Billing, Order history**,  **Partners**,  **Permissions**,  **Settings**, and  **Support** options available in Microsoft Store for Business.

    >  **Note:** The GAdmin user is a global administrator and has full permissions in Microsoft Store for Business.

10. Locate the **Translator** app in Microsoft Store for Business. Verify that you can see the  **License type** options to the left of the **Install** button.

11. Select the ellipsis (**…**), and then verify that you have the  **Manage** and **Add to private store** options available.

12. Add the Translator app to the private store.

13. Get the **Fresh Paint** app, but don’t add it to the private store.

14. Locate the **Microsoft Remote Desktop** app in Microsoft Store for Business, select **offline licensing**, get the app, and then verify that you can download the Microsoft Remote Desktop package for offline use.



#### Task 3: Access Microsoft Store for Business
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, use the Store app and verify that you can see the following five categories on the toolbar of the Store app:  **Home**,  **Apps**,  **Games**,  **Movies &amp; TV**, and  **Books**.

2. Sign in to the Store app by using the  **Abbi@*&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com** work or school account with the password **Pa55w.rd**, and then add this account to the Windows operating system.

    >  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 3, “Managing Windows 10 sign-in and identity,” you created a Microsoft account in the **_&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;_@outlook.com** format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on December 18, 2017, your account should be DF121817@outlook.com. In this case, you should sign in as  **Abbi@DF121817outlook.onmicrosoft.com**.

3. In the Store app, verify that you are signed in as  **Abbi Skinner**.

    >  **Note:** Although apps added to the private store when you signed up for Microsoft Store for Business, it takes up to 36 hours for apps to appear in the private store. When they are visible, you will get an additional tab in the Store app. This additional tab will be named **Adatum Store**, which you configured earlier in the lab.

4. Verify that the work or school account that you used in the Store app is connected to your Microsoft account.

    >  **Note:** An Azure AD account also is referenced as a work or school account.

5. Open the  **Local Group Policy Editor**, view the:  
**Computer Configuration\\Administrative Templates\\Windows Components\\Store\\Only display the private store within the Windows Store app** setting, and then read the Help for the setting.  
Don’t configure this setting.

    >  **Note:** You don’t configure and test this setting, because the private store has not yet updated with the added apps.

<!-- -->

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully signed up for Microsoft Store for Business and performed initial configuration of the store. You should also have assigned users to Microsoft Store for Business roles and tested how to connect to the store from Windows 10 devices.



## Exercise 2: Configuring and using Windows AutoPilot
  
### Scenario
  
 Adatum wants to implement company branding to make employees aware that when they authenticate with Azure AD, they are authenticating with the Adatum Azure AD tenant. Management also wants to configure Windows AutoPilot and use it to deploy new Windows 10 devices. They will test the deployment on an existing computer, and if the test deployment goes as planned, they will ask their hardware vendor to upload device information for all newly purchased devices to the Windows AutoPilot cloud service.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Customize Azure AD company branding

2. Generate a device-specific comma-separated value (CSV) file

3. Work with a Windows AutoPilot deployment profile

4. Deploy a device by using Windows AutoPilot



#### Task 1: Customize Azure AD company branding
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, use Internet Explorer to navigate to Microsoft Azure portal at following URL:  [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com).

2. Sign in to Microsoft Azure portal as  **GAdmin@*&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com** with the password that you configured in module 3.

3. In the Microsoft Azure portal, configure  **Company Branding** for **Azure Active Directory** by using following settings:

  - Sign-in page background image:  **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod08\\Background.jpg**

  - Banner logo:  **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod08\\Adatum280.jpg**

  - Sign-in page text:  **20697-2C Adatum.com sign-in page**

  - Square logo image:  **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod08\\Adatum240.jpg**

  - Square logo image, dark theme:  **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod08\\Adatum_dark.jpg**

  - Show option to remain signed in:  **Yes**

4. Configure the  **Azure Active Directory** property **Name** to value **20697-2C Azure AD**.



#### Task 2: Generate a device-specific comma-separated value (CSV) file
  
1. On  **LON-CL5**, at the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Install-Script -Name Get-WindowsAutoPilotInfo
  ```

2. Set the Windows PowerShell script execution policy to allow the running of only  **RemoteSigned** scripts by typing the following cmdlet, and then pressing Enter:

  ```
  Set-ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned
  ```

3. Obtain  **LON-CL5** device-specific information and save it to the **C:\\Computer.csv** file by typing the following script, and then pressing Enter:

  ```
  Get-WindowsAutoPilotInfo.ps1 -OutputFile C:\Computer.csv
  ```

4. Review the content of the  **C:\\Computer.csv** file.

5. Map the  **\\\\LON-DC1\\Labfiles** shared folder to drive **F:** using **Administrator** and **Pa55w.rd** as credentials. You can do this by typing the following command, and then pressing Enter:

  ```
  NET USE F: \\LON-DC1\Labfiles /user:Administrator Pa55w.rd
  ```

6. Copy the  **C:\\Computer.csv** file to drive F.



#### Task 3: Work with a Windows AutoPilot deployment profile
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, use Microsoft Edge to add a new device to Microsoft Store for Business by uploading the  **\\\\LON-DC1\\Labfiles\\Computer.csv** file.

2. Verify that the device named  **Virtual Machine** added to Microsoft Store for Business.

3. Create a Windows AutoPilot deployment profile named  **Profile1** that has the following three settings set to **On**:

  -  **Skip privacy settings**

  -  **Disable local admin account creation on the device**

  -  **Skip End User License Agreement (EULA)**

4. Apply  **Profile1** to the device named **Virtual Machine**.

5. Verify that Profile1 applied to the device.



#### Task 4: Deploy a device by using Windows AutoPilot
  
1. On the host computer, apply the  **Generalized** checkpoint to **20697-2C-LON-CL5**, turn on the VM, and then wait while it starts.

2. Configure your region and keyboard layout, and then skip the additional keyboard.

3. Verify that the sign-in page is customized with the Adatum company branding that you added earlier.

4. Sign in as  **Abbi@*&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com** and use **Pa55w.rd** as the password.

    >  **Note:** While Abbi is signing in, notice that you weren’t asked for privacy settings. You disabled that in the Windows AutoPilot deployment profile.

5. Skip setting up the PIN for now.

6. When Abbi signs in, use the Settings app to verify that she is a normal user and not an Administrator.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully implemented Azure AD company branding. You should also have successfully implemented Windows AutoPilot Deployment and used it to deploy Windows 10 devices.


## Exercise 3: Using Microsoft Store for Business to deploy apps
  
### Scenario
  
 The initial testing of Microsoft Store for Business went well. You established the Adatum private store, purchased several apps, added them to the private store, and delegated coworker permissions in Windows Store for Business.

In this exercise, you want to test the deployment of apps from Microsoft Store for Business. In the future, the company will deploy apps by using Intune, but you want to study Microsoft Store for Business capabilities. You will assign an app, verify how the user is notified about the assignment, and then install the app. You also plan to test the process of reclaiming the assigned license.

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Assign a Microsoft Store for Business app

2. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Assign a Microsoft Store for Business app
  
1. On  **LON-CL5**, use Internet Explorer to browse to  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com).

    >  **Note:** You signed in to Office portal as Abbi Skinner, although you weren’t asked for credentials. You are signed in to **LON-CL5** with an Azure AD account, and the same account is used to access the Office portal.

2. In Internet Explorer, select  **Mail**, and then set up Outlook.

3. On  **LON-CL1**, in Microsoft Store for Business, assign the **Fresh Paint** app to the user **Abbi Skinner**, and then verify that the app is assigned.

4. On  **LON-CL5**, use Internet Explorer to open the message from Microsoft Store, **allow blocked content**, and then install the app.

5. Verify that you can start the Fresh Paint app, and then close it.

6. On  **LON-CL1**, use Internet Explorer to reclaim the license for Fresh Paint from Abbi Skinner.

    >  **Note:** You reclaimed the license for the Fresh Paint app from Abbi Skinner. If the app weren’t free, Abbi would not be allowed to run the app.


#### Task 2: Prepare for the next module
  
 When you finish with the lab, revert the  **LON-CL1**,  **LON-CL2** and **LON-CL5** VMs to their initial state. **_Don’t revert LON-DC1!_**

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In the  **Virtual Machines** list, right-click **20697-2C-LON-CL1**, and then select  **Revert**.

3. In the  **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, select **Revert**.

4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20697-2C-LON-CL2** and **20697-2C-LON-CL5**.

    >  **Note:** **_Don’t revert LON-DC1!_**  **LON-DC1** is synchronizing on-premises AD DS with Azure AD.

<!-- -->

>  **Result**: After finishing this exercise, you will assign and install an app from Microsoft Store for Business. You will also reclaim the app license.



## 
  
**Question** 
Can you sign up for Microsoft Store for Business by using the Microsoft Store app?

**Question** 
Do you need to add a user to the Basic purchaser role to be able to browse and install apps from Microsoft Store for Business?

**Question** 
Why were you unable to view any apps in the private store even though you had added several apps there?

**Question** 
Can you fully automate a deployment by using Windows AutoPilot?


## 


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  