# Module 4: Managing user profiles and UE-V
# Lab A: Configuring user profiles and UE-V
  
### Scenario
  
 The Marketing department at Adatum Corporation has many users who often use different computers. Management asked you to evaluate different solutions that would enable user settings and data to roam. This includes the use of roaming user profiles and  **Folder Redirection**. You want to prevent users from using unauthorized computers, and to do so, you want to configure users with the primary computer feature.

Adatum Corporation is using Windows 10 Enterprise, and management has asked you to demonstrate the features of UE-V. Management is particularly interested in the ability to roam network printers and user certificates, and to revert application settings to initial values. The company is using many line-of-business applications that were developed in-house, and therefore, management is also interested in how UE-V can sync those applications.

 


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure roaming user profiles,  **Folder Redirection**, and the primary computer setting.

- Implement and configure UE-V.

- Configure and use Enterprise State Roaming.


### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 75 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**,  **20697-2C-LON-CL1**,  **20697-2C-LON-CL2**,  **20697-2C-LON-CL3**,  **20697-2C-LON-CL4**,  **20697-2C-LON-CL5**, and **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**

 For  **LON-DC1**:

 - User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For  **LON-CL4**:

 - User name:  **Admin**

 - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

>  **Note:** Start and sign in to **LON-DC1** and **LON-CL4**. Start the  **LON-CL1**,  **LON-CL2**,  **LON-CL3**, and **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** virtual machines, but do not sign in to them. Do not start **LON-CL5** at this point.

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In Hyper-V Manager, select  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, select **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, select  **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts. 

4. Sign in by using the following credentials: 


  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**


5. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20697-2C-LON-CL4**, and then sign in with the user name Admin and password  **Pa55w.rd**.

6. Start the  **20697-2C-LON-CL1**,  **20697-2C-LON-CL2**,  **20697-2C-LON-CL3**, and **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** virtual machines, but do not sign in to them.


 
## Exercise 1: Configuring roaming user profiles, Folder Redirection, and the primary computer setting
  
### Scenario
  
 After your coworkers have set up the demonstration environment, you plan to evaluate different solutions for syncing user state and data. Your plan is to first test traditional solutions for roaming, which include roaming user profiles and folder redirection. At the same time, you plan to test  **Offline Files** feature to make sure that redirected folders are available even without network connectivity, and you want to implement the primary computer setting and verify that roaming user profiles and redirected folders are available only on the computer that you define as the primary computer.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Prepare the infrastructure

2. Configure roaming user profiles

3. Configure Folder Redirection

4. Test roaming user profiles and Folder Redirection

5. Configure the primary computer setting

6. Test the primary computer setting



#### Task 1: Prepare the infrastructure
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, on drive  **C:**, create a folder named  **Profiles**. Grant  **Domain Users** Read/Write permissions to the folder and share it with Read/Write permissions for **Domain Users**.

2. On drive **C:**, create a folder named  **Redirected**. Grant  **Domain Users** Read/Write permissions to the folder and share it with Read/Write permissions for **Domain Users**.



#### Task 2: Configure roaming user profiles
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, use  **Active Directory Users and Computers** to configure **Ada Russell**, who is in the  **Marketing** OU, with profile settings that point to **\\\\LON-DC1\\Profiles\\%username%**.



#### Task 3: Configure Folder Redirection
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, create a GPO named  **Folder Redirection**, and then link it to the  **Marketing** OU.

2. Configure the  **Folder Redirection** Group Policy setting to redirect the **Documents** folder to **\\\\LON-DC1\\Redirected**.



#### Task 4: Test roaming user profiles and Folder Redirection
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, switch to  **File Explorer** and verify that the **Profiles** and **Redirected** folders are empty.

2. Sign in to  **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\\Ada** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. On Ada’s desktop, create a folder named  **Presentations**, and then add a shortcut to  **Local Disk (C)**.

4. In  **Notepad**, create a file with your name, and then save it in the  **Documents** folder.

5. Verify that the file is stored in the  **\\\\LON-DC1\\Redirected\\Ada\\Documents** folder and is not stored inside Ada Russell’s local profile. Also verify that the **Offline Files** tab is available in the **File Properties** dialog box.

6. Disconnect  **20697-2C-LON-CL1** from the virtual switch.

7. ON  **LON-CL1**, create a text file named  **File1** in the **Documents** folder, and then view its properties on the **Offline Files** tab.

8. Open the file with your name from the  **Documents** folder, type today’s date, and then save the updated file.

9. Connect  **20697-2C-LON-CL1** to the virtual switch named **Private Network**.

10. Sign out of  **LON-CL1**

11. On  **LON-DC1**, verify that the  **Profiles** and **Redirected** folders are no longer empty. The **Profiles** folder contains the Ada roaming user profile (Ada.V6), whereas the **Redirected** folder contains Ada Russell’s redirected  **Documents** folder.

12. Sign in to  **LON-CL2** as **Adatum\\Ada**.

13. Verify that the  **Presentations** folder and the **Local Disk (C)** shortcut are on the desktop.

14. Verify that you can access files transparently in the  **Documents** folder that you created on **LON-CL1**. Open the file with your name in  **Notepad**, and then verify that it contains today’s date.

>  **Note:** Remember that you added the date and saved the file on **LON-CL1** while you did not have network connectivity.

15. Sign out of  **LON-CL2**.



#### Task 5: Configure the primary computer setting
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Active Directory Users and Computers**, copy the value of the  **distinguishedName** attribute of **LON-CL1** to the **msDS-PrimaryComputer** attribute of **Ada Russell**, who is in the  **Marketing** OU.

2. Add the value of the  **distinguishedName** attribute of **LON-CL2** to the **msDS-PrimaryComputer** attribute of **Ada Russell**.

3. Switch to the Group Policy Management Console.

4. In  **Default Domain Policy**, enable the  **Computer Configuration\\Policies\\Administrative Templates\\System\\User Profiles\\Download roaming profiles on primary computers only** setting and the **User Configuration\\Policies\\Administrative Templates\\System\\Folder Redirection\\Redirect folders on primary computers only** setting.

5. On  **LON-CL4**, add  **LON-CL4** to the **Adatum.com** domain, and then use **Administrator** and **Pa55w.rd** as required credentials. Restart as required.



#### Task 6: Test the primary computer setting
  
1. Sign in to  **LON-CL4** as **Adatum\\Ada** with the password **Pa55w.rd**, ** **and then verify that the  **Presentations** folder and the **Local Disk (C)** shortcut are not on the desktop. Additionally, verify in **Notepad** that the file with your name is not available in the **Documents** folder. Sign out of **LON-CL4**. 

2. On  **LON-DC1**, edit the value of the  **msDS-PrimaryComputer** attribute of **Ada Russell** and replace **LON-CL2** with **LON-CL4**.

3. Sign in to  **LON-CL4** as **Adatum\\Ada** with the password **Pa55w.rd**, and then verify that the  **Presentations** folder and the **Local Disk (C:)** shortcut are on the desktop.

4. Verify in  **Notepad** that the file with your name is available in the **Documents** folder. Because you configured **LON-CL4** as Ada Russell’s primary computer, redirected folders are available.

>  **Note:** After you first sign in, the **Documents** folder is empty because the **Folder Redirection** GPO did not apply at first sign-in. Sign out and sign in as **Ada Russell** with the password **Pa55w.rd**, and then repeat the previous step.

5. Revert the  **20697-2C-LON-CL4** virtual machine.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured roaming user profiles and Folder Redirection. You also should have configured a user with the primary computer setting.


## Exercise 2: Implementing and using UE-V
  
### Scenario
  
 Adatum Corporation has an Enterprise Agreement with Microsoft and client computers that are running Windows 10 Enterprise. In the second phase of the project, management has asked you to implement a pilot UE-V implementation. You have demonstrated the benefits of roaming user profiles,  **Folder Redirection**, and primary computer settings, and how users can access the content of redirected folders even without network connectivity. 

After you perform initial configuration, you plan to demonstrate how UE-V can sync application settings, network printers, and certificates. You also want to show how UE-V can revert application settings to their initial values and then sync additional applications. Based on the results of your demonstration, management will decide whether to implement UE-V in production.

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Prepare the environment for UE-V

2. Configure UE-V Group Policy settings

3. Enable UE-V, and then verify the effective settings

4. Configure UE-V SyncMethod

5. Use UE-V synchronization

6. Create and use custom UE-V template



#### Task 1: Prepare the environment for UE-V
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, open File Explorer and create a folder on C drive named  **UEVData**. Grant  **Domain Users** Read/Write permissions to the folder, and then share it with Read/Write permissions for **Domain Users**.

2. Create a folder on C drive named  **UEVTemplates**. Grant  **Domain Users** Read/Write permissions to the folder, and then share it with Read/Write permissions for **Domain Users**.



#### Task 2: Configure UE-V Group Policy settings
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, use the GPMC to create a Group Policy named  **UE-V**, and then link it to the  **Adatum.com** domain.

2. In the  **UE-V** Group Policy, under **Computer Configuration\\Policies\\Administrative Templates\\Windows Components\\Microsoft User Experience Virtualization**, configure the following policies:


  - Enable the  **Enable UEV** setting.

  - Enable the  **Settings template catalog path** setting and configure it to point to **\\\\LON-DC1\\UEVTemplates**.


3. In the  **UE-V** Group Policy, under **User Configuration\\Policies\\Administrative Templates\\Windows Components\\Microsoft User Experience Virtualization**, configure the following policies:


  - Enable the  **Settings storage path** setting and configure it to point to **\\\\LON-DC1\\UEVData\\%username%**

  - Enable  **Synchronize Windows settings** setting and select **Roaming Credentials** (all five checkboxes should be selected)



#### Task 3: Enable UE-V, and then verify the effective settings
  
1. Sign in to  **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Verify the UE-V status by running the  **Get-UevStatus** cmdlet.

3. Enable UE-V by running the  **Enable-Uev** cmdlet.

4. Use the  **Get-UevTemplate** cmdlet to verify that no settings location template is registered by default.

5. Use the  **Register-UevTemplate** cmdlet to register all the XML templates in the **C:\\ProgramData\\Microsoft\\UEV\\InboxTemplates** folder.

6. Use the  **Get-UevTemplate** cmdlet to verify that several templates are now registered.

7. Restart  **LON-CL1**.

8. Sign in to  **LON-CL2** as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd** and run the **C:\\Labfiles\\Mod04\\ConfigureUEV.ps1** script. This script enables UE-V, registers default templates, and then restarts the computer.



#### Task 4: Configure UE-V SyncMethod
  
1. Sign in to  **LON-CL1** and **LON-CL2** as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. On  **LON-CL1**, open PowerShell and use  **Get-UevConfiguration** to view the current UE-V configuration.

>  **Note:** Notice that values for **SettingsStoragePath** and **SettingsTemplateCatalogPath** are configured as you set them in Group Policy.

> Also notice that  **SyncMethod** is set to **SyncProvider**. This means that UE-V is using the local setting cache, which is synced with the shared network folder every 30 minutes.

3. Use  **Get-Command** cmdlet to view all available cmdlets in the UEV Windows PowerShell module.

4. Start Notepad, and then in Notepad, set the font to  **Verdana** size **48**.

5. On  **LON-CL2**, verify that Notepad is still using the default font and not the font that you configured on  **LON-CL1**.

>  **Note:** UE-V uses the local settings cache by default. Therefore, changes from **LON-CL1** will not be used on **LON-CL2** yet.

6. On LON-CL2, run **Set-UevConfiguration** with the **SyncMethod None** parameter to configure UE-V to read settings directly from the network.

7. Verify that Notepad is using the Verdana size 48 font that you configured on  **LON-CL1**.

8. In Notepad, set the font to  **Arial** size **26**.

9. On  **LON-CL1**, run  **Set-UevConfiguration** with the **SyncMethodNone** parameter.

10. Verify that Notepad is using  **Arial** size **26** font that you configured on **LON-CL2**.

>  **Note:** You typically would configure **SyncMethod** by using Group Policy. In this lab, you configured it manually to see the difference between UE-V using local settings cache and reading settings directly from the network share.



#### Task 5: Use UE-V synchronization
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, run WordPad, and verify that  **Ruler** and **Status bar** on the **View** tab are selected by default. Clear both check boxes and then close WordPad.

2. On the desktop, create a shortcut to  **Local Disk (C:)**.

3. In Notepad, type your name, save the file in the  **Documents** folder, and then close Notepad.

4. Use the  **Certificates** console to request the user certificate.

5. Add a network printer, which is available at the following UNC path:  **\\\\LON-DC1\\Printer1**.

6. On  **LON-DC1**, verify that the  **C:\\UEVdata** folder has a subfolder named **Administrator**. 

7. Configure  **File Explorer** to show hidden items, and then verify that the **Administrator** folder contains a **SettingsPackages** subfolder.

8. Verify that the  **SettingsPackages** folder contains multiple subfolders for the applications and Windows settings that UE-V syncs.

>  **Note:** The **SettingsPackages** folder includes the **MicrosoftWordpad6** subfolder, because **Wordpad** stores its settings as soon as you close the app.

9. On  **LON-CL1**, in WordPad, verify that the  **Ruler** and **Status bar** check boxes are not selected, which is not the default configuration, but it is exactly as you configured it on **LON-CL2**. 

10. Sign out of  **LON-CL1** and **LON-CL2**, and then sign in to  **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

11. On  **LON-CL1**, verify that the shortcut to  **Local Disk (C:)** is not present on the desktop.

>  **Note:** UE-V does not sync desktop contents. To do so, you should use **Folder Redirection** or roaming user profiles. The **Folder Redirection** policy that you created earlier does not apply to the Administrator because the Administrator is not in the **Marketing** OU.

12. Use the  **Certificates** console to verify that **Administrator** on **LON-CL1** currently does not have any certificate.

>  **Note:** UE-V syncs certificates when a user signs out for the second time.

13. Sign out of  **LON-CL1**.

14. Sign in to  **LON-CL2** as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**, and then immediately sign out.

15. Sign in to  **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

16. Use the  **Certificates** console to verify that **Administrator** now has a certificate, which was synced by UE-V from **LON-CL2**.

17. Use the  **Settings** app to verify that the **Microsoft PS Class Driver on lon-dc1** network printer is available. It also has synchronized from **LON-CL2**.



#### Task 6: Create and use custom UE-V template
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, run the Microsoft User Experience Virtualization Generator to create a settings location template for the following program:  **C:\\Program files (x86)\\Microsoft\\Remote Desktop Connection Manager\\RDCMan.exe**.

2. In  **Remote Desktop Connection Manager**, modify one of the available options, and then close  **Remote Desktop Connection Manager**.

3. Include a nonstandard file location that includes Remote Desktop Connection Manager in the settings location template, and then save the settings location template to  **\\\\LON-DC1\\UEVTemplates\\RDCMan.xml**.

4. On  **LON-CL1**, use the  **Get-UevTemplate** cmdlet to verify that no settings location template that contains the string “rdc” is registered.

5. Use the  **Register-UevTemplate** cmdlet to register the **\\\\LON-DC1\\UEVTemplates\\RDCMan.xml** settings location template.

6. Use the  **Get-UevTemplate** cmdlet to verify that the **Remote-Desktop-RDCMan-v-2-7** settings location template is registered.

7. Sign in to  **LON-CL2** as **Adatum\\Administrator**, and then use  **Pa55w.rd** as the password.

8. Use the  **Register-UevTemplate** cmdlet to register the **\\\\LON-DC1\\UEVTemplates\\RDCMan.xml** settings location template.

9. On  **LON-CL1**, run  **Remote Desktop Connection Manager**, configure the  **Auto save interval** to **3 minute(s)**, and then close Remote Desktop Connection Manager.

10. On  **LON-CL2**, run  **Remote Desktop Connection Manager**, verify that the  **Auto save interval** is selected and is configured to **3 minute(s)**, and then close  **Remote Desktop Connection Manager**.

11. Use the  **Restore-UevUserSetting** cmdlet to revert Remote Desktop Connection Manager settings to the initial values.

12. In  **Remote Desktop Connection Manager**, verify that **Auto save interval** is not enabled, which is its initial state.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully implemented and configured UE-V for syncing apps and Windows settings.


## Exercise 3: Configuring and using Enterprise State Roaming
  
### Scenario
  
 Your company has implemented Azure AD. Several employees already joined their BYOD devices to Azure AD and plan to use them for accessing cloud applications in the future. Management has asked you to demonstrate how you can synchronize those devices by using Enterprise State Roaming.

You are preparing the environment for the demonstration. You plan to enable Enterprise State Roaming for a demonstration user, and then join the user’s device to Azure AD, to test the Enterprise State Roaming, and finally to verify which settings about the sync process you can view in the Azure portal.

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Enable Enterprise State Roaming

2. Add a computer to Azure AD

3. View device properties and sync status

4. Prepare for the next lab



#### Task 1: Enable Enterprise State Roaming
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, use Internet Explorer in InPrivate Browsing mode, navigate to the Azure portal at [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com), and then sign in by using the Microsoft account credentials that you created in the lab in module 3.

>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in the lab in Module 3, you created a Microsoft account in the format **_&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;_@outlook.com** and used **Pa55w.rd!** as the password. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created Microsoft account on November 18, 2017, your account should be DF111817@outlook.com.

2. In the Azure Portal, in the  **Azure Active Directory** pane, select **Devices**, and then note the devices that are currently in Azure AD.

3. Use the  **Devices Settings** option to allow the user named **Aidan Norman** to sync settings and app data across devices. Make note of Aidan’s account, because you will need it in the next task.

>  **Note:** By performing this task, you enabled Enterprise State Roaming for Aidan Norman.



#### Task 2: Add a computer to Azure AD
  
1. In Hyper-V manager, start and then connect to the  **20697-2C-LON-CL5** virtual machine.

2. Accept the default options on out-of-box experience (OOBE) pages.

3. On the  **Sign in with Microsoft** page, in the text box, type **Aidan@*&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com** and on the next page specify **Pa55w.rd** as the password.

>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 3, you created a Microsoft account in the format **_&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;_@outlook.com**. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created Microsoft account on November 18, 2017, your account should be DF111817@outlook.com. In that case, you should type  **Aidan@DF111817outlook.onmicrosoft.com** as the account.

4. On  **LON-CL3**, sign in as the same user,  **Aidan@*&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com**, use  **Pa55w.rd** as the password, and skip the creation of the personal identifitication number (PIN).

5. Open the  **Sync your settings** page, and then verify that **Sync Settings** is **On**. Also verify that all individual sync settings are turned on and that you are using the device as Aidan@*&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com.

6. On  **LON-CL5**, skip the creation of the PIN, and then wait until the user is signed in.

7. Apply a custom background picture on the desktop.



#### Task 3: View device properties and sync status
  
1. On  **LON-CL5**, in Internet Explorer, add the URL  [**https://www.microsoft.com/learning**](https://www.microsoft.com/learning) to favorites.

2. On  **LON-CL3**, verify whether the URL that you added to favorites in Internet Explorer on  **LON-CL5** has already synced.

>  **Note:** Enterprise State Roaming typically syncs settings fairly quickly. However, if the setting is not yet there, you might need to wait a bit longer.

3. On  **LON-DC1**, use Internet Explorer to verify that the device whose name starts with  **DESKTOP-** was added to Azure AD in this exercise.

4. Use the device view, which shows all the devices that  **Aidan Norman** owns.

5. Use device view, which shows all the devices that  **Aidan Norman** owns and are synced by Enterprise Data Roaming.



#### Task 4: Prepare for the next lab
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, in Internet Explorer, on the  **Devices – Device settings** blade, and then in the navigation pane, select **All devices**.

2. Click the name that starts with  **DESKTOP-**, select  **Delete**, and then select  **Yes.**

3. Close Internet Explorer.

4. Use the  **GPMC** to delete the **UE-V** Group Policy that is linked to the Adatum.com domain and the **Folder Redirection** GPO that is linked to the **Marketing** OU.

5. Create a checkpoint of  **LON-CL5**, and name it  **After Lab 4A**. You can create the checkpoint by performing the following steps:

-In the  **20697-2A-LON-CL5** window, select **Action**, ** **and then select  **Checkpoint**.

-In the  **Checkpoint name** dialog box, type **After Lab 4A**, select  **Yes**, and then select  **OK**. 

6. Revert the  **LON-CL1**,  **LON-CL2**, and  **LON-CL5** virtual machines. **_Do not revert LON-DC1_!** You can revert the virtual machines by performing the following steps:
On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.

In the  **Virtual Machines** list, right-click **20697-2C-LON-CL1**, and then select  **Revert**.

In the  **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, select **Revert**.

Repeat steps b and c for  **20697-2C-LON-CL2** and **20697-2C-LON-CL5**.

7. Shut down LON-CL3. Do not revert LON-CL3.

8. Shut down  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**.

    >  **Note:** Do not revert **LON-DC1**.  **LON-DC1** is synchronizing on-premises AD DS with Azure AD.

<!-- -->

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully configured Enterprise State Roaming in Azure AD, joined a Windows 10 device to Azure AD, and performed a sync.



## 
  
**Question** 
What steps must you take to ensure that the settings that UE-V syncs are applied from the settings storage location and not from the local cache?

**Question** 
After you copy the settings location template to the settings location catalog, how long does it take for UE-V clients to update with it?

**Question** 
Which tool can you use to create a UE-V settings location template?




# Lab B: Migrating a user state by using USMT
  
### Scenario
  
 A user named Vera Pace has been using her computer for several years. She was configured with a local user profile and all her customizations were stored locally. She also stored some of her files locally.

You plan to replace her computer. You have already installed new computer and joined it to the Adatum.com domain. As part of the replacement process, you need to migrate Vera’s settings from an old computer to a new one. You need to migrate the following settings:

- User environment, including desktop content and taskbar shortcuts.

- Content of  **Public Documents** folder.

- Content of  **C:\\Projects** folder.


 You should not migrate the following:

- Content of  **Public Music** folder.

- Windows Defender settings.

- Local users.

- Settings for other domain users.


 You should use USMT to perform the migration. USMT is available on the  **\\\\LON-DC1\\USMT** shared folder, and you can use **\\\\LON-DC1\\MigStore** as a location to store the data during the migration. The data store should be compressed to minimize space. Because there is no confidential information, you don’t need to encrypt the migration store.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Create and customize USMT XML files.

- Capture and restore user state by using USMT.


### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 20 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, **20697-2C-LON-CL1**, and **20697-2C-LON-CL2**

>  **Note:** Start the **LON-CL1** and **LON-CL2** virtual machines, but do not sign in to them. **LON-DC1** should be running from the previous lab.

All three virtual machines should be running. You do not need to sign in to any of them. **LON-DC1** should be running from the previous lab, so you do not need to start it. Start **LON-CL1** and **LON-CL2**.


## Exercise 1: Capture the user state on the source computer
  
### Scenario
  
 As part of the migration process you need to capture Vera’s state from the old computer. You will first verify her customizations, create custom XML file that will be used for capturing user state and then capture user state.

Based on the guidance, you will modify the  **Config.xml** file to exclude **Public Music** and **Windows Defender** settings from the capture. You will use Scanstate parameters to make sure that only Vera’s state is captured and all other profiles are skipped.

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a custom XML migration file

2. Capture the user state



#### Task 1: Create a custom XML migration file
  
1. Sign in to  **LON-CL2** as **Adatum\\Vera** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Verify that Vera has a black desktop and the following custom configuration:

- **This PC** and **Vera Pace** folders are on the desktop

- Calculator and Weather apps are pinned to the taskbar

- Store and Mail apps are not pinned to the taskbar

3. Create a new text document on the desktop.

4. Create a new text document named  **Vera’s Public Documents** in the **C:\\Users\\Public\\Public Documents** folder.

5. Create a new text document named  **Vera’s Public Music** in the **C:\\Users\\Public\\Public Music** folder.

6. Sign out and then sign in to  **LON-CL2** as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

7. In Windows PowerShell, map a network drive on LON-DC1 by using the following command:

  ```
  Net Use F: \\LON-DC1\USMT
  ```

8. Change to drive F:, and then create a  **Config.xml** file by using the following command:

  ```
  scanstate /i:migapp.xml /i:miguser.xml /genconfig:Config.xml
  ```

9. Use Notepad to open the  **Config.xml** file. Modify the XML document to exclude **Public Music** from the migration by locating the Documents node, and then change the **migrate** attribute from **yes** to **no** for Shared Music. Verify that Shared Documents has the **migrate** attribute set to **yes**, and then save the file.

10. Modify  **Config.xml** to exclude Windows Defender settings from the migration by locating following three components and change the **migrate** attribute from **yes** to **no**:


  - Windows-Defender-AM-Sigs

  - Windows-Defender-AM-Engine

  - Security-Malware-Windows-Defender


11. Use Notepad to edit folders.xml, ** **and replace the string “ _Foldername_” with  **Projects** to migrate the C:\\Projects folder and all of its content. The entire line should be similar to the following:

  ```
  <pattern type= “File”>C:\Projects\* [*]</pattern>
  ```

12. Verify that a  **Projects** folder is on disk C and that it contains two files, named **Project1.txt** and **Project2.txt**.

13. Create a new text document that you name by using your name in the  **C:\\Projects** folder.



#### Task 2: Capture the user state
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, verify that a local user named LocalAdmin exists.

2. On  **LON-CL2**, verify that the **\\\\LON-DC1\\MigStore** shared folder is empty.

3. Capture user state by using the following command:

  ```
  F:\Scanstate \\LON-DC1\MigStore /i:migapp.xml /i:miguser.xml /i:folders.xml /config:Config.xml /ue:*\* /ui:adatum\vera /o
  ```

4. Verify that the  **\\\\LON-DC1\\MigStore** shared folder stores the **Usmt.mig** captured user state.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created and customized XML files to use with the USMT.


## Exercise 2: Restore the user state on the destination computer
  
### Scenario
  
 When you captured Vera’s state on her old computer, you excluded components and other user’s settings that should not be migrated. This makes migration process easier, as you can restore everything what was captured to the migration store.

You will use the Loadstate tool to restore Vera’s settings to her new computer,  **LON-CL1**. After the migration, you will make sure that all her settings are migrated and applied.

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Restore the user state

2. Verify migration of user settings

3. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Restore the user state
  
1. Sign in to  **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. On  **LON-CL1**, verify that  **C:\\Users** does not contain a subfolder named **Vera**.

3. Verify that there is no  **Projects** folder on drive C.

4. Verify that no local user named  **LocalAdmin** is on **LON-CL1**. 

5. Open Windows PowerShell and map drive F to  **\\\\LON-DC1\\USMT** by using the following command:

  ```
  Net Use F: \\LON-DC1\USMT
  ```

6. Switch to drive F:, and then restore the user state on the destination computer by using the following command:

  ```
  F:\Loadstate \\LON-DC1\MigStore /i:migapp.xml /i:miguser.xml /i:folders.xml /c
  ```

7. Verify that the  **C:\\Users** folder contains a subfolder named Vera.

8. Verify that there is no local user named  **LocalAdmin** on **LON-CL1**, as this user was excluded from the migration.

9. Sign out of  **LON-CL1**.



#### Task 2: Verify migration of user settings
  
1. Sign in to  **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\\Vera** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Verify that Vera has a black desktop, file with your name on the desktop and the same customizations as on  **LON-CL2**:


  - **This PC** and **Vera Pace** folders are on the desktop

  - Calculator and Weather apps are pinned to the taskbar

  - Store and Mail apps are not pinned to the taskbar


3. Verify that the **C:\\Projects** folder with all its content, including the file with your name, has migrated successfully.

4. Verify that file  **Vera’s Public Documents** is in the **Public Documents** folder.

5. Verify that the folder  **Public Music** is empty, as its content was excluded from the migration.



#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module
  
 When you are finished with the lab, revert the  **LON-CL1** and **LON-CL2** virtual machines to their initial state.

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In the  **Virtual Machines** list, right-click **20697-2C-LON-CL1**, and then select  **Revert**.

3. In the  **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, select **Revert**.

4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20697-2C-LON-CL2**.

    >  **Note:** Do not revert **LON-DC1**!  **LON-DC1** is synchronizing on-premises AD DS with Azure AD. You can shut down LON-DC1.

<!-- -->

>  **Result**: After performing this exercise, you will restore user state on destination computer.



## 
  
**Question** 
Why did you need to create and customize a  **Config.xml** file?

**Question** 
Why did you use XML files with the  **ScanState.exe** command?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  