# Lab Answer Key:  Module 11: Configuring and managing Client Hyper-V
# Lab: Configuring and managing Client Hyper-V
  
## Exercise 1: Installing Client Hyper-V
  
#### Task 1: Enable nested virtualization
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **hyper-v**, and confirm that no match containing the word Hyper-V is found.

2. On the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **powershell**, and then click  **Windows PowerShell**.

3. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-Command -Module Hyper-V 
  ```

4. Verify that no cmdlet is listed.

5. On the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **features**, and then click  **Turn Windows features on or off**.

6. In the  **Windows Features** dialog box, expand **Hyper-V**, expand  **Hyper-V Platform**, and then click  **Hyper-V**. 

7. Verify that the Hyper-V Management Tools are selected, but Hyper-V Hypervisor and Hyper-V Services are grayed out and they cannot be selected.

>  **Note:** You cannot install the Hyper-V Platform feature because **LON-CL1** does not meet the prerequisites for installing Client Hyper-V.

8. In the  **Windows Features** dialog box, click **Cancel**.

9. On the physical host computer, **HV-HOST**, on the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **powershell**, and then click  **Windows PowerShell**.

10. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Set-VMProcessor 20697-2C-LON-CL1 -ExposeVirtualizationExtensions $True
  ```


>  **Note:** You will get an error because **LON-CL1** is running and you can enable nested virtualization only if the virtual machine (VM) is turned off.

11. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, right-click  **Start**, select  **Shut down or sign out**, and then click  **Shut down**.

12. After  **20697-2C-LON-CL1** is turned off, on the physical host computer, **HV-HOST**, in the Windows PowerShell window, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Set-VMProcessor 20697-2C-LON-CL1 -ExposeVirtualizationExtensions $True
  ```

13. On the physical host computer, **HV-HOST**, in **Hyper-V Manager**, double-click the **20697-2C-LON-CL1** VM, and in the **20697-2C-LON-CL1 on HV-HOST - Virtual Machine Connection** window, click **File**, and then select **Settings...**.

14. In **Settings for 20697-2C-LON-CL1 on HV-HOST** window, in the navigation pane, click  **Memory**, and then in the details pane, in the  **RAM** text box, type **4096**.

15. In **Settings for 20697-2C-LON-CL1 on HV-HOST** window, in the navigation pane, expand  **Network Adapter**, and then click  **Advanced Features**. 

16. In **Settings for 20697-2C-LON-CL1 on HV-HOST** window, in the details pane, select the  **Enable MAC address spoofing** check box, and then click **OK**.



#### Task 2: Install Client Hyper-V
  
1. On the physical host computer, **HV-HOST**, in the **20697-2C-LON-CL1 on HV-HOST - Virtual Machine Connection** window, click **Start**.  
Wait until  **LON-CL1** starts, and then sign in as **Adatum\\Administrator**, using **Pa55w.rd** as the password.

2. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **features**, and then click  **Turn Windows features on or off**.

3. On  **LON-CL1**, in the  **Windows Features** dialog box, expand **Hyper-V**, expand  **Hyper-V Platform**, and then click  **Hyper-V**. 

4. Verify that this time Hyper-V Management Tools, Hyper-V Hypervisor, and Hyper-V Services are selected.

>  **Note:** Because nested virtualization is enabled for **LON-CL1**, you were able to select all Hyper-V components.

5. On  **LON-CL1**, in the  **Windows Features** dialog box, click **OK**. 

6. Wait until the feature is installed, and then click  **Restart now**.

7. On  **LON-CL1**, sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using **Pa55w.rd** as the password.

8. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **powershell**, and then click  **Windows PowerShell**.

9. On  **LON-CL1**, in the Windows PowerShell window, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter:

```
Get-Command -Module Hyper-V 
```


>  **Note:** The output now shows many cmdlets, which confirms that the Microsoft Hyper V module is installed and available.

 
>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have enabled nested virtualization and installed the Client Hyper-V feature.




## Exercise 2: Creating a virtual switch, a virtual hard disk, and a VM
  
#### Task 1: Create virtual switches
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, click  **Start**, and then click  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. On  **LON-CL1**, in Hyper-V Manager, in the navigation pane, click  **LON-CL1**. In the  **Actions** pane, click **Virtual Switch Manager**.

3. In the Virtual Switch Manager window, confirm that in the  **Virtual Switches** section, **Default Switch** is the only virtual switch listed.

4. In the  **Virtual Switch Manager** window, click **Cancel**. 

5. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **control**, and then click  **Control Panel**.

6. In Control Panel, in the  **Search ControlPanel** text box, type **network**, and then click  **View network connections**.

7. In the  **Network Connections** window, confirm that two network connections display: **Ethernet**, and  **vEthernet (Default Switch)**.

8. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, click  **Hyper-V Manager**, and in the  **Actions** pane, click **Virtual Switch Manager**.

9. In Virtual Switch Manager for  **LON-CL1**, in the navigation pane, confirm that  **New virtual network switch** is selected. In the details pane, click **Private**, and then click  **Create Virtual Switch**. 

10. In the details pane, in the  **Name** text box, type **Private Switch**, and then click  **OK**.

11. On the taskbar, click  **Network Connections**, and confirm that no network connection was added when you created the private virtual switch. 

12. On the taskbar, click  **Hyper-V Manager**, and in the  **Actions** pane, click **Virtual Switch Manager**.

13. In Virtual Switch Manager for  **LON-CL1**, in the navigation pane, confirm that  **New virtual network switch** is selected. In the details pane, click **Internal**, and then click  **Create Virtual Switch**. 

14. In the details pane, in the  **Name** text box, type **Internal Switch**, and then click  **OK**.

15. On the taskbar, click  **Network Connections**, and confirm that when you created the internal virtual switch, an additional network connection named  **vEthernet (Internal Switch)** was added.

16. On the taskbar, click  **Hyper-V Manager**, and in the  **Actions** pane, click **Virtual Switch Manager**.

17. In Virtual Switch Manager for  **LON-CL1**, in the details pane, verify that  **External** is selected, and then click **Create Virtual Switch**.

18. In the details pane, in the  **Name** text box, type **External Switch**, click  **OK**, and then click  **Yes**.

19. On the taskbar, click  **Network Connections**, and confirm that when you created the external virtual switch, an additional network connection named  **vEthernet (External Switch)** was added.

20. On the taskbar, click  **Hyper-V Manager**, and in the  **Actions** pane, click **Virtual Switch Manager**.

21. In Virtual Switch Manager for  **LON-CL1**, in the details pane, verify that  **External**, is selected, and then click  **Create Virtual Switch**.

22. In the details pane, in the  **Name** text box, type **External Switch 2**, click  **OK**, and then click  **Yes**.

23. When the  **Error applying Virtual Switch Properties changes** message displays, expand **See details** to view the error description.

24. Review the error message, click  **Close**, and then click  **Cancel**. 

>  **Note:** The error message states that the physical network adapter is already bound to the virtual switch, and the network adapter can be bound to only one external virtual switch.


#### Task 2: Create virtual hard disks
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, in Hyper-V Manager, in the  **Actions** pane, click **New**, and then click  **Hard Disk**.

2. In the  **New Virtual Hard Disk Wizard**, on the  **Before You Begin** page, click **Next**.

3. On the  **Choose Disk Format** page, confirm that **VHDX** is selected, and then click  **Next**.

4. On the  **Choose Disk Type** page, confirm that the default disk type for the virtual hard disk is  **Dynamically expanding**, and then click  **Next**.

5. On the  **Specify Name and Location** page, in the **Name** text box, type **Dynamic.vhdx**. In the  **Location** text box, type **C:\\VMs**, and then click **Next**.

6. On the  **Configure Disk** page, confirm that **Create a new blank virtual hard disk** is selected. In the **Size** field, type **100**, and then click  **Next**.

7. On the  **Completing the New Virtual Hard Disk Wizard** page, click **Finish**.

8. In Hyper-V Manager, in the  **Actions** pane, click **New**, and then click  **Hard Disk**.

9. In the  **New Virtual Hard Disk Wizard**, on the  **Before You Begin** page, click **Next**.

10. On the  **Choose Disk Format** page, click **VHD**, and then click  **Next**.

11. On the  **Choose Disk Type** page, click  **Differencing**, and then click  **Next**.

12. On the  **Specify Name and Location** page, in the **Name** text box, type **Differencing.vhd**. In the  **Location** text box, type **C:\\VMs**, and then click **Next**.

13. On the  **Configure Disk** page, click **Browse**, and then browse to  **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod11**.

14. In the  **Mod11** folder, click **Base18A-W10-1709.vhd**, click  **Open**, and then click  **Next**.

15. On the  **Completing the New Virtual Hard Disk Wizard** page, click **Finish**.

16. On the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **powershell**, and then click  **Windows PowerShell**. 

17. In Windows PowerShell, create a fixed-size virtual hard disk by typing the following cmdlet, and then pressing Enter:

  ```
  New-VHD -Path C:\VMs\Fixed.vhdx -SizeBytes 1GB -Fixed
  ```

18. On the taskbar, click the  **File Explorer** icon.

19. In File Explorer, expand  **Local Disk (C:)**, and then click  **VMs**. 

20. In the details pane, confirm that the three virtual hard disks that you created display.

21. Right-click  **Fixed.vhdx**, and then click  **Properties**.

22. Confirm that the size on the disk is  **1.00 GB**, and then click  **OK**.

23. In File Explorer, verify that both  **Dynamic.vhdx** and **Differencing.vhd** are allocated much less space on the disk, even though you configured  **Dynamic.vhdx** with 100 gigabytes (GB).



#### Task 3: Creating VMs
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, in Hyper-V Manager, in the  **Actions** pane, click **New**, and then click  **Virtual Machine**.

2. In the  **New Virtual Machine Wizard**, on the  **Before You Begin** page, click **Next**.

3. On the  **Specify Name and Location** page, in the **Name** text box, type **VM1**, and then click  **Next**.

4. On the  **Specify Generation** page, verify that **Generation 1** is selected, and then click **Next**.

5. On the  **Assign Memory** page, verify that **Startup memory** has a value of **1024**. Clear the  **Use Dynamic Memory for this virtual machine** check box, and then click **Next**.

6. On the  **Configure Networking** page, in the **Connection** drop-down list box, verify that all the switches that you created are available.

7. Select  **External Switch**, and then click  **Next**.

8. On the  **Connect Virtual Hard Disk** page, select the **Use an existing virtual hard disk** option. In the **Location** text box, type **C:\\VMs\\Differencing.vhd**, and then click  **Next**.

9. On the  **Completing the Virtual Machine Wizard** page, click **Finish**. 

10. Verify that a Virtual Machine named **VM1** has been created.

11. On  **LON-CL1**, in Hyper-V Manager, right-click  **VM1**, and then click  **Start**. Notice that a checkpoint of VM1 has been created automatically.

12. Right-click  **VM1**, and then click  **Settings**.

13. In the navigation pane, click  **SCSI Controller**. In the details pane, click  **Hard Drive**, click  **Add**, and in the  **Virtual hard disk** text box, type **C:\\VMs\\Fixed.vhdx**.

14. In the navigation pane, click  **SCSI Controller**. In the details pane, click  **Hard Drive**, and then click  **Add**. In the  **Virtual hard disk** textbox, type **C:\\VMs\\Dynamic.vhd**.

15. In the navigation pane, click  **Memory**. In the details pane, in the  **RAM** textbox, type **1500**, and then click  **OK**.

>  **Note:** You were able to add virtual hard disks and modify the amount of memory while VM1 was running.

16. On  **LON-CL1**, in Hyper-V Manager, in the  **Actions** pane, click **New**, and then click  **Virtual Machine**.

17. In the  **New Virtual Machine Wizard**, on the  **Before You Begin** page, click **Next**.

18. On the  **Specify Name and Location** page, in the **Name** text box, type **VM2**, and then click  **Next**.

19. On the  **Specify Generation** page, select the **Generation 2** option, and then click **Next**.

20. On the  **Assign Memory** page, in the **Startup memory** text box, type **512**, and then click  **Next** four times.

21. On the  **Completing the Virtual Machine Wizard** page, click **Finish**. 

22. Verify that a Virtual Machine named **VM2** has been created.

23. On  **LON-CL1**, in Hyper-V Manager, right-click  **VM2**, and then click  **Settings**.

24. In the  **Settings for VM2 on LON-CL1** window, in the navigation pane, click **Security**. In the details pane, click  **Enable Trusted Platform Module**, and then click  **OK**.

25. In Hyper-V Manager, right-click  **VM2**, and then click  **Start**. Notice that a checkpoint of VM2 has been created automatically.

26. Right-click  **VM2**, and then click  **Settings**.

27. In the  **Settings for VM2 on LON-CL1** window, in the details pane, click **Network Adapter**, and then click  **Add**. In the  **Virtual switch** drop-down list box, select **Private Switch**, and then click  **OK**.

>  **Note:** You now have added a network adapter to Generation 2 VM while VM was running.

28. On  **LON-CL1**, in Hyper-V Manager, right-click  **VM2**, and then click  **Turn Off**. Notice that the VM2 checkpoint that was automatically created has been deleted.



#### Task 4: Resize virtual hard disks
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, in Hyper-V Manager, double-click  **VM1**.

2. In the  **Connect to VM1** dialog box, select **Display configuration** of **800 by 600 pixels**, and then click  **Connect**.

3. On **VM1**, sign in as  **Admin** and use **Pa55w.rd** as the password.

4. On **VM1**, on the taskbar, right-click  **Start**, and then click  **Disk Management**.

5. In Disk Management, verify that three disks display to represent the differencing, fixed size, and dynamically expanding disks that you created earlier in the lab.

6. Right-click  **Disk 1**, click  **Initialize Disk**, and then click  **OK**.

7. Right-click the unallocated space on Disk 1, click  **New Simple Volume**, click  **Next** four times, and then click **Finish**.

8. Right-click the unallocated space on Disk 2, click  **New Simple Volume**, click  **Next** four times, and then click **Finish**.

9. Verify that a 1-GB volume has been created on Disk 1, a 100-GB volume has been created on Disk 2, and that there is no unallocated space on either of the disks.

10. On  **LON-CL1**, in Windows PowerShell, type the following two cmdlets, pressing Enter after each cmdlet:

  ```
  Resize-VHD C:\VMs\Fixed.vhdx -SizeBytes 2GB 
  ```


  ```
  Resize-VHD C:\VMs\Dynamic.vhdx -SizeBytes 150GB
  ```

11. On **VM1**, in Disk Management, click  **Action**, and then click  **Rescan Disks**.

12. Verify that 1 GB of unallocated space is added to Disk 1, and 50 GB of unallocated space is added to Disk 2. You extended both disks while they were in use.

13. Right-click  **New Volume (E:)**, click  **Extend Volume**, click  **Next** twice, and then click **Finish**.

14. Close Disk Management.

15. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, click  **File Explorer**.

16. In File Explorer, open the C:\\VMs folder.

17. In the details pane, verify the size of the Fixed.vhdx, Dynamic.vhdx, and Differencing.vhd virtual hard disks.

    >  **Note:** You extended Fixed.vhdx to 2 GB. The Dynamic.vhdx size has also increased, although it is considerably smaller than 150 GB. The Differencing.vhd size has also increased because new data was written to it.

<!-- -->

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created different types of virtual switches, virtual hard disks, and VMs.



## Exercise 3: Using Integration Services and checkpoints
  
#### Task 1: Configure Integration Services
  
1. On **VM1**, on the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **service**, and then click  **Services**.

2. In the  **Services** window, in the details pane, confirm that the **Hyper-V Time Synchronization Service** is **running**, and that the **Hyper-V Guest Service Interface** is **not running**.

3. On **VM1**, on the taskbar, right-click  **Start**, click  **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**, and then click  **Yes**.

4. On **VM1**, in the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command,  and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-Date 
  ```

5. Make note of the current time on VM1.

6. On **VM1**, in Windows PowerShell, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Set-Date 11:00
  ```

7. On **VM1**, in Windows PowerShell, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-Date
  ``` 

8. Verify that the time was automatically set back to its previous value. This occurred because Integration Services automatically synchronized the time on VM1 with the time on  **LON-CL1**.

9. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, click  **File Explorer**.

10. On  **LON-CL1**, in File Explorer, in the navigation pane, click  **Allfiles (E:)**. In the details pane, right-click an empty space, click  **New**, click  **Text Document**, type  **File1** as the file name, and then press Enter.

11. On  **LON-CL1**, double-click  **File1.txt**. In the file, type your name. Close Notepad, and then click  **Save**.

12. On  **LON-CL1**, in Windows PowerShell, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  Copy-VMFile VM1 -SourcePath E:\File1.txt -DestinationPath C:\ -FileSource Host
  ```


>  **Note:** You will get an error because the Guest Service Interface is not running in VM1.

13. On **LON-CL1**, in Hyper-V Manager, in the details pane, right-click  **VM1**, and then click  **Settings**. 

14. In  **Settings for VM1 on LON-CL1**, in the navigation pane, click  **Integration Services**. In the details pane, select the  **Guest services** check box, clear the  **Time synchronization** check box, and then click **OK**.

15. On **VM1**, in Services, right-click  **Services (Local)**, and then click  **Refresh**. 

16. Confirm that the **Hyper-V Time Synchronization Service** is **not running**, but the **Hyper-V Guest Service Interface** is **running**.

17. Close the  **Services** window.

18. On **VM1**, in Windows PowerShell, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-Date
  ```

19. Make note of the current time reported on VM1.

20. On **VM1**, in Windows PowerShell, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Set-Date 11:00
  ```

21. On **VM1**, in Windows PowerShell, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-Date
  ``` 

22. Confirm that the returned time is a few seconds after  **11:00 AM**.  
The time is off because the time on the VM is no longer synchronizing with the  **LON-CL1**.

23. On **VM1**, in Windows PowerShell, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  dir C:\
  ```

24. Verify that  **File1.txt** does not exist on drive C:.

25. On  **LON-CL1**, in Windows PowerShell, run the same cmdlet as earlier to copy the file in VM1: 

  ```
  Copy-VMFile VM1 -SourcePath E:\File1.txt -DestinationPath C:\ -FileSource Host
  ```

26. On **VM1**, in Windows PowerShell, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  dir C:\
  ```

27. Confirm that  **File1.txt** now exists on drive C.

28. On **VM1**, in Windows PowerShell, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  notepad C:\File1.txt
  ```

29. Verify that the file displays.

30. On **VM1**, close Notepad, and then minimize the Windows PowerShell window.



#### Task 2: Work with checkpoints
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, in Hyper-V Manager, right-click  **VM1**, and then click  **Settings**. 

2. In Settings for VM1, in the navigation pane, under  **SCSI Controller**, click  **Hard Drive**, and confirm that it is using the  **Fixed.vhdx** virtual hard disk.

3. In the navigation pane, click  **Checkpoints**. In the details pane, confirm that the  **Standard checkpoints** option is selected, and then click **OK**.

4. In Hyper-V Manager, right-click  **VM1**, and then click  **Checkpoint**. Wait a few seconds, and then verify in the Checkpoints pane that a checkpoint named VM1 is added.

5. On the taskbar, click  **VM1**.

6. In **VM1**, right-click the desktop, click  **New**, and then click  **Folder**. Name the folder  **Folder1**.

7. In the  **VM1 on LON-CL1 - Virtual Machine Connection** window, in the **Action** menu, click **Checkpoint**, type  **Folder1** as **Checkpoint Name**, and then click **Yes**, and then click **OK.**

8. In the  **VM1 on LON-CL1- Virtual Machine Connection** window, in the **File** menu, click **Settings**.

9. In Settings for VM1, in the navigation pane, under  **SCSI Controller**, click  **Hard Drive**. In the details pane, verify that the virtual hard disk name starts with Fixed, but it contains GUID in its name.

>  **Note:** This is a differencing disk, which was created by the checkpoint.

10. In the navigation pane, click  **Checkpoints**. In the details pane, select the  **Production checkpoints** option, and then click **OK**.

11. On VM1, right-click the desktop, click  **New**, click  **Folder**, and then name the folder **Folder2**.

12. In the  **VM1 on LON-CL1 - Virtual Machine Connection** window, in the **Action** menu, click **Checkpoint**. Type  **Folder2** as the **Checkpoint Name**, click **Yes**, and then click  **OK**.

13. On  **LON-CL1**, in Hyper-V Manager, in the  **Checkpoints** pane, verify that VM1 has four checkpoints.

14. Right-click the **Folder1** checkpoint, and then click **Apply**. 

15. In the  **Apply Checkpoint** dialog box, click **Apply**.

16. On VM1, sign in as  **Admin**, using  **Pa55w.rd** as the password.

17. On the desktop, confirm that there is only one folder, named  **Folder1**.

18. On the taskbar, click  **Windows PowerShell** and confirm that it shows the cmdlets that you ran earlier.

>  **Note:** You have just applied a standard checkpoint, which includes memory content.

19. On  **LON-CL1**, in Hyper-V Manager, right-click  **Folder2** checkpoint, and then click **Apply**. In the  **Apply Checkpoint** dialog box, click **Apply** and then click **Reconnect**.

20. In the  **VM1 on LON-CL1 – Virtual Machine Connection** window, click **Start**, and wait until the sign-in screen is shown.

21. On **VM1**, sign in as  **Admin** and use **Pa55w.rd** as the password.

22. On **VM1**, on the desktop, confirm that the Folder1 and Folder2 folders are available and verify that no running programs are shown on the taskbar. 

    >  **Note:** You applied a production checkpoint. Because a production checkpoint does not include memory content, the VM must go through the startup process when you apply a production checkpoint.

<!-- -->

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Integration Services, and created and applied checkpoints.




©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  