# Module 3: Managing Windows 10 sign-in and identity
# Lab: Extending on-premises AD DS to Azure AD
  
### Scenario
  
 Your organization is starting to explore the use of cloud services. After evaluating the available cloud services, you have decided to begin managing mobile and remote devices by using Intune. To prepare for using Intune, you will create an Azure account and use Azure AD Join.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Create a Microsoft account and Azure AD tenant.

- Manage Azure AD users and groups.

- Enable directory synchronization.

- Join a Windows 10 computer to Azure AD.


### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 90 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20697-2C-LON-DC1** and **20697-2C-LON-CL3**

 - Usernames:  **Adatum\\Administrator** and **Admin**

 - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  **Lab Setup**

 For this lab, you will use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In  **Hyper-V Manager**, select  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, and then in the Actions pane, select  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, select  **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts.

4. Sign in by using the following credentials:


  - Username:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


5. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20697-2C-LON-CL3**. 

6. Sign in as  **Admin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

7. To provide access to the internet, start  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**.



## Exercise 1: Activating a trial Azure subscription and creating an Azure AD tenant
  
### Scenario
  
 As a part of your evaluation, you need to sign up for a new Microsoft account and configure an Azure AD tenant.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Sign up for a Microsoft account

2. Create a trial Azure subscription

3. Review the default Azure AD directory settings



#### Task 1: Sign up for a Microsoft account
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, sign in as  **Admin** with password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. On  **LON-CL3**, start Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **login.live.com**.

3. Select the  **Sign up now** link, and then use the wizard to create a new Microsoft account.

>  **Note:** Make sure that you write down the username that you chose. For example, you can choose a username in the **_&lt;YourInitials&gt;&lt;Date&gt;_@outlook.com** format, as an example, if your name is **Don Funk** and you created a Microsoft account on **December 18, 2017**, your account would be **DF121817@outlook.com**. Make sure to **_note the password that you select_**. We recommend that you type your working email address in the **Alternate email address** text box.


#### Task 2: Create a trial Azure subscription
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, in Microsoft Edge, browse to  [**http://aka.ms/cu92vo**](http://aka.ms/cu92vo).

2. On the  **Azure Pass** page, sign in with the Microsoft account that you created in the previous task.

3. Enter your promo code, and then finish creating the trial account.

4. Verify that you can access the Azure portal at [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com).

>  **Note:** If an authentication error occurs, sign out, close all browser windows, and then sign in at [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com).

5. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 3: Review the default Azure AD directory settings
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, use Microsoft Edge to connect to  [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com), and then sign in with your Microsoft account.

2. Browse to the  **Azure Active Directory Overview** page, and then read the name of the default directory.

3. On the  **Custom domain names** page, read the existing domain name, and then record it.

4. Leave the Azure portal open for the next exercise.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant.



## Exercise 2: Managing Azure AD users and groups
  
### Scenario
  
 As part of Azure AD configuration, you are going to create some users and groups in the cloud.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a standard user

2. Create a global administrator

3. Add a **Microsoft Enterprise Mobility + Security E5** trial subscription

4. Create a group with static membership

5. Create a group with dynamic membership



#### Task 1: Create a standard user
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, on the Azure portal, browse to  **Users - All users**.

2. Create a new user with the following information:


  - Name:  **Deanna Sheppard**

  - Username:  **Deanna@*yourtenant*.onmicrosoft.com**

  - First name:  **Deanna**

  - Last name:  **Sheppard**

  - Department:  **IT**


3. Note the password for later use.



#### Task 2: Create a global administrator
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, on the Azure portal, create a new user with the following information:


  - Name:  **GAdmin**

  - Username:  **GAdmin@*yourtenant*.onmicrosoft.com**


2. Directory role:  **Global administrator**

3. Note the password for later use.

4. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 3: Add a Microsoft Enterprise Mobility + Security E5 trial subscription
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, use Microsoft Edge to open  [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com), and then sign in as  **GAdmin@*yourtenant*.onmicrosoft.com**.

2. When prompted, update the password for GAdmin.

3. Browse to the  **Azure Active Directory Quick Start** page.

4. Select the option to create a free trial account for Azure AD Premium, select  **ENTERPRISE MOBILITY + SECURITY E5**, and then activate it. 



#### Task 4: Create a group with static membership
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, on the Azure portal, browse to  **Azure Active Directory**, and then browse to  **Groups - All groups**.

2. Create a new group with the following information:

  - Group type: **Security**
  
  - Group name:  **StaticGroup**

  - Membership type:  **Assigned**

  - Members:  **Deanna Sheppard**,  **GAdmin**



#### Task 5: Create a group with dynamic membership
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, on the Azure portal, browse to  **Azure Active Directory**, and then browse to  **Groups - All groups**.

2. Create a new group with the following information:

  - Group type: **Security**
  
  - Group name:  **DynamicGroup**

  - Membership type:  **Dynamic User**

  - Dynamic membership rule:  **department Equals IT**


3. Verify that Deanna Sheppard is listed as a DynamicGroup member.

    >  **Note:** If no DynamicGroup members are listed, wait a few minutes, and then refresh the membership list. It can take several minutes for the membership to populate.

<!-- -->

>  **Result**: After this exercise, you will have successfully created cloud-based users and groups.



## Exercise 3: Configuring and enabling directory synchronization
  
### Scenario
  
 For all your AD DS users to sign in to cloud-based services by using their existing credentials, you must install Azure AD Connect. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Update UPNs to match Azure AD

2. Install Azure AD Connect

3. Verify that Azure AD Connect has populated Azure AD



#### Task 1: Update UPNs to match Azure AD
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, use Windows PowerShell Integrated Scripting Environment (ISE) to open  **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod03\\UpdateUPN.ps1**.

2. On line three of the script, replace  **_yourtenant_** with the name of your Azure AD tenant.

3. Save the script, and then run it.

4. Use Active Directory Administrative Center to verify that the UPN has updated for Abbi Skinner in the IT OU.



#### Task 2: Install Azure AD Connect
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, run  **E:\\Labfiles\\AzureADConnect.msi**.

2. Install Azure AD Connect by using the following settings:

  -  **Express settings**

  - Azure AD account:  **GAdmin@*yourtenant*.onmicrosoft.com**

  - AD DS account:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

  -  **Continue without any verified domains**


 **Start the synchronization process when configuration completes**


#### Task 3: Verify that Azure AD Connect has populated Azure AD
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, on the Azure portal, browse to  **Azure Active Directory**, and then view the configuration for  **Azure AD Connect**.

>  **Note:** If **Sync Status** is **Not Enabled**, then wait a few moments and refresh the page.

2. Browse to  **Users - All users**, and then verify that new users have been added.

3. Browse to  **Groups - All groups**, and verify that new groups have been added.

4. View the **DynamicGroup** membership, and verify that new members have been added.




## Exercise 4: Joining a Windows 10 computer to Azure AD
  
### Scenario
  
 After configuring your Azure AD trial tenant, you now want to add your Windows 10 computer to Azure AD.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Join a Windows 10 computer to Azure AD

2. Verify that the computer has the Azure AD certificates

3. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Join a Windows 10 computer to Azure AD
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open  **Settings** in the **Start** menu, and then select **Accounts**.

2. In  **Access work or school**, connect by using the following settings:

  -  **Join this device to Azure Active Directory**

  - Username:  **Aidan@*yourtenant*.onmicrosoft.com**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

3. Use Microsoft Edge to open  [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com), and then sign in as  **GAdmin@*yourtenant*.onmicrosoft.com**.

4. In  **Azure Active Directory**, browse to  **Devices**, and then verify that Aidan Norman is the owner of  **LON-CL3**.

5. Restart  **LON-CL3**, and then sign in as  **Aidan@*yourtenant*.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

6. Set up a PIN if prompted to do so.

7. Verify your identity by text message if prompted to do so.



#### Task 2: Verify that the computer has the Azure AD certificates
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open the  **Microsoft Management Console**.

2. Add the  **Certificates** snap-in for the **Computer account** to the console window.

3. View the personal certificates store.

4. Ensure that you see certificates that were issued by  **MS-Organization-Access** and **MS-Organization-P2P-Access**.



#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module
  
- When you have finished the lab, shut down all running virtual machines. Do not revert the machines as they will be needed in the current state for the next module.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully added your Windows 10 computer to Azure AD.



## 
  
**Question** 
Why did you need to add the Microsoft Enterprise Mobility + Security trial subscription before configuring the group with dynamic membership?

**Question** 
Why did you change the UPNs for the user accounts before enabling directory synchronization?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
