# Lab Answer Key:  Module 8: Configuring and using Microsoft Store for Business
# Lab: Deploying apps and Windows 10 by using Microsoft Store for Business
  
## Exercise 1: Signing up and managing Microsoft Store for Business
  
#### Task 1: Sign up for Microsoft Store for Business and perform initial configuration
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, select  **Microsoft Edge** on the taskbar.

2. In Microsoft Edge, type  **https://www.microsoft.com/business-store** in the address bar, and then press Enter.

3. In the top-right corner of Microsoft Edge, select the  **Sign in** link.
>  **Note:** The page localizes based on your location.
4. In the  **Sign in toMicrosoft Store** dialog box, in the **someone@example.com** text box, type **GAdmin@YourInitialsMMDDYYoutlook.onmicrosoft.com**, select  **Next**, ** **in the  **Password** text box, type the password that you have configured for this user in module 3, ** **and then select ** Sign in**.
>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 3, “Managing Windows 10 sign-in and identity,” you created a Microsoft account in the _YourInitials-MMDDYY_@outlook.com format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on December 18, 2017, your account should be DF-121817@outlook.com. In this case, you should sign in as  **GAdmin@DF121817outlook.onmicrosoft.com**.
5. At the bottom of the  **Microsoft Store for Business and Education Services Agreement** page, select both check boxes, and then select **Accept**.
>  **Note:** The page localizes based on your location.
6. On the  **Microsoft Store for Business** page, select **Manage**.

7. In the navigation pane, select  **Products &amp; services**. In the details pane, verify that the  **Sway**,  **OneNote**,  **PowerPoint Mobile**,  **Excel Mobile**, and  **Word Mobile** apps show a status of **Adding to private store**.
>  **Note:** When you sign up for Microsoft Store for Business, the portal automatically adds Microsoft Sway, Microsoft OneNote, Microsoft PowerPoint Mobile, Microsoft Excel Mobile, and Microsoft Word Mobile to your private store. It might take up to 36 hours for the apps to appear in the private store. These apps are automatically available for you to deploy to users.
8. In the navigation pane, select  **Settings**. In the details pane, on the  **Shop** tab, in the **Shopping experience** section, turn the **Show offline apps** switch to **On**.

9. Verify that under  **Microsoft Store for Business**, the second option from the left on the toolbar is  **Default Directory**.

10. In the details pane, select the  **Distribute** tab. In the **Private store** section, select **Change**, in the  **Display name** text box, ** **type  **Adatum Store**, and then select  **Save**.

11. Verify that the second option from the left on the toolbar below  **Microsoft Store for Business** is now **Adatum Store**. This is your private store.

12. In the  **Settings** details pane, select the **Devices** tab, and then review where you can configure Device Guard signer policies. Don’t confuse this option with the **Devices** option in the navigation pane!

>  **Note:** When configured, these policies allow apps from Microsoft Store for Business to run on a device that Windows Defender Device Guard is protecting.


#### Task 2: Work with roles in Microsoft Store for Business
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, in Microsoft Edge, on the  **Microsoft Store for Business** page, in the navigation pane, select **Permissions**.

2. In the details pane, on the  **Roles** tab, select **Assign roles**.

3. In the  **Assign roles to people** dialog box, in the text box, type **Ada**, select  **Ada Russell**, select the  **Admin** check box, and then select **Save**.

4. Select  **Assign roles**, in the text box, type  **Holly**, select  **Holly Spencer**, select the  **Purchaser** check box, and then select **Save**.

5. In the details pane, verify that the GAdmin user has the Global Admin ** **role, ** **Ada Russell ** **has the Admin ** **role, and Holly Spencer ** **has the Purchaser role.

6. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, select  **Internet Explorer**.

7. In Internet Explorer, in the address bar, type  **https://www.microsoft.com/business-store**, and then press Enter.

8. In the top-right corner of Internet Explorer, select the  **Sign in** link.
>  **Note:** The page localizes based on your location.
9. On the  **Sign in toMicrosoft Store** page, in the **someone@example.com** text box, type **Holly@YourInitialsMMDDYYoutlook.onmicrosoft.com**, select  **Next**, in the  **Password** text box, type **Pa55w.rd**, ** **and then select  **Sign in**. At the  **Would you like to store your password for microsoftonline.com** notification, select **Not for this site**.
>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 3, “Managing Windows 10 sign-in and identity,” you created a Microsoft account in the _YourInitials-MMDDYY_@outlook.com format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on December 18, 2017, your account should be DF-121817@outlook.com. In this case, you should sign in as  **Holly@DF121817outlook.onmicrosoft.com**.
10. Maximize the  **Internet Explorer** window, and then select **Manage**. Verify that in the navigation pane, Holly has the  **Quotes**, ** Products &amp; services**,  **My organization**,  **Benefits**,  **Billing, Order history**, ** Partners**, and  **Support** options available.
>  **Note:** Holly has the Purchaser role assigned. Purchaser doesn’t have access to **Devices**, ** Permissions**, and  **Settings**.
11. In Internet Explorer, select  **Shop for my group**, scroll down to the  **Made by Microsoft** section, select **Translator**, select  **Get the app**, and then select  **Close**. Notice the ellipsis ( **…**) near the  **Install** button.

12. Select the ellipsis ( **…**), and then notice that only the  **Manage** option is available. Additionally, notice that **License type** is set to **Online**, but the  **Offline** licensing type also is available.
>  **Note:** Holly has the Purchaser role assigned. Purchaser can’t add apps to the private store.
13. On  **LON-CL2**, in Microsoft Edge, on the toolbar below  **Microsoft Store for Business**, select  **Manage**. Verify that in the navigation pane, you have the  **Quotes**, ** Products &amp; services**,  **My organization**,  **Benefits**,  **Devices**,  **Billing**, ** Order history**,  **Partners**,  **Permissions**,  **Settings**, ** **and  **Support** options available.
>  **Note:** The GAdmin user is a global administrator and has full permissions in Microsoft Store for Business.
14. In Microsoft Edge, select  **Shop for my group**, scroll down to the  **Made by Microsoft** section, and then select **Translator**. 

15. Select the ellipsis ( **…**), and then notice that you can see the  **Manage** and **Add to private store** options available. Select **Add to private store**.
>  **Note:** All store apps support online licensing. Only some store apps support offline licensing; the developer who submits the app to the store decides if the app can be offline-licensed.
16. In Microsoft Edge, select  **Shop for my group**, scroll down to the  **Made by Microsoft** section, select **Show all**, ** **select  **Fresh Paint**, select  **Get the app**, and then select  **Close**.

17. In Microsoft Edge, select  **Shop for my group**, scroll down to the  **Made by Microsoft** section, select **Show all**, ** **and then select  **Microsoft Remote Desktop**.

18. On the  **Microsoft Remote Desktop** page, in the **License type: Online** drop-down list, select **Offline**. Select  **Get the app**, select  **Close**, ** **select  **Manage**, scroll down the page, and then verify that you can download the Microsoft Remote Desktop package for offline use.



#### Task 3: Access Microsoft Store for Business
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, select the  **Store** app on the taskbar.

2. In the Store app, verify that you can see the following five categories on the toolbar of the Store ** **app:  **Home**,  **Apps**,  **Games**,  **Movies &amp; TV**, ** **and  **Books**.

3. In the Store ** **app, on the toolbar, select the icon that represents a person (the icon to the left of the magnifying glass), and then select  **Add work or school account**.

4. On the  **Let’s get you signed in** page, in the **someone@example.com** text box, type **Abbi@YourInitialsMMDDYYoutlook.onmicrosoft.com**, and then select  **Next**.
>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 3, “Managing Windows 10 sign-in and identity,” you created a Microsoft account in the _YourInitials-MMDDYY_@outlook.com format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on December 18, 2017, your account should be DF-121817@outlook.com. In this case, you should sign in as  **Abbi@DF121817outlook.onmicrosoft.com**.
5. On the  **Enter password** page, in the **Password** text box, type **Pa55w.rd** and then select **Sign in**.

6. On  **Add this account to Windows** page, select **Yes**, and then select  **Done**.

7. In the Store ** **app, on the toolbar, select the icon that represents a person (the icon to the left of the magnifying glass), and then verify that you are signed in as  **Abbi Skinner**.
>  **Note:** Although apps added to the private store when you signed up for Microsoft Store for Business, it takes up to 36 hours for apps to appear in the private store. When they are visible, you will get an additional tab in the Store app. This additional tab will be named **Adatum Store**, which you configured earlier in the lab.
8. Close the Store ** **app.

9. On the taskbar, select  **Start**, type  **work or**, select  **Manage work or school account**, verify that the work or school account ** **that you used in the Store app is connected to your Microsoft account, and then close the Settings ** **app.
>  **Note:** A Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) account also is referenced as a work or school account.
10. On the taskbar, select  **Start**, type  **gpedit.msc**, and then press Enter.

11. In the  **Local Group Policy Editor**, in the navigation pane, under  **Computer Configuration**, expand  **Administrative Templates**, expand  **Windows Components**, and then select  **Store**.

12. In the details pane, double-click the  **Only display the private store within the Windows Store app** setting, read the Help for the setting, select **OK**, and then close the  **Local Group Policy Editor**.

>  **Note:** You don’t configure and test this setting, because the private store has not yet updated with the added apps.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully signed up for Microsoft Store for Business and performed initial configuration of the store. You should also have assigned users to Microsoft Store for Business roles and tested how to connect to the store from Windows 10 devices.


## Exercise 2: Configuring and using Windows AutoPilot
  
#### Task 1: Customize Azure AD company branding
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, on the taskbar, click  **Internet Explorer**. ** **

2. In Internet Explorer, in the address bar, type  **https://portal.azure.com**, and then press Enter.

3. In the  **Sign in toMicrosoft Azure** dialog box, in the **Email or phone** text box, type **GAdmin@YourInitialsMMDDYYoutlook.onmicrosoft.com**, select  **Next**, ** **in the  **Password** text box, type the password that you have configured for this user in module 3, ** **select ** Sign** and then select **No**.

4. In the Microsoft Azure portal, in the navigation pane, select  **Azure Active Directory**.

5. On the  **Azure Active Directory** blade, select **Company Branding**, and then select  **Configure**.

6. On the  **Configure company branding** blade, configure the following settings:


  - Sign-in page background image: Select  **Browse**, browse to  **E:\Labfiles\Mod08**, select  **Background.jpg**, and then select  **Open**.

  - Banner logo: Select the  **Browse** icon, select **Adatum280.jpg**, and then select  **Open**.

  - Sign-in page text:  **20697-2C Adatum.com sign-in page**

  - Square logo image: Select  **Browse**, select  **Adatum240.jpg**, and then select  **Open**.

  - Square logo image, dark theme: Select  **Browse**, select  **Adatum_dark.jpg**, and then select  **Open**.

  - Show option to remain signed in: Select  **Yes**.


7. Select  **Save**, ** **and then close the  **Configure company branding** blade.

8. On the  **Azure Active Directory** blade, in the navigation pane, select **Properties**.

9. In the  **Name** text box, type **20697-2C Azure AD**, ** **and then select  **Save**.



#### Task 2: Generate a device-specific comma-separated value (CSV) file
  
1. On  **LON-CL5**, on the taskbar, right-click  **Start**, select  **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**, ** **and then select  **Yes**.

2. In the Windows PowerShell command-line interface, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Install-Script -Name Get-WindowsAutoPilotInfo
  ```

3. You will receive three prompts. Each time, type  **Y**, ** **and then press Enter.

4. Type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Set-ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned
  ```

5. When prompted, type  **Y**, ** **and then press Enter.

6. Type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-WindowsAutoPilotInfo.ps1 –OutputFile C:\Computer.csv
  ```

7. Type  **type C:\Computer.csv**, press Enter, ** **and then review the file content.

8. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  NET USE F: \\LON-DC1\Labfiles /user:Administrator Pa55w.rd
  ```

9. Type the following command, and then press Enter:


```
Copy C:\Computer.csv F:\
```



#### Task 3: Work with a Windows AutoPilot deployment profile
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, in  **Microsoft Edge**, on the  **Microsoft Store for Business** page, in the navigation pane, select **Devices**.

2. In the details pane, select  **Add devices**, browse to  **\\LON-DC1\Labfiles**, select  **Computer.csv**, and then select  **Open**.

3. In the  **Add device to an AutoPilot deployment group** dialog box, select **No, thanks**.

4. In the details pane, select  **Refresh my list**, and then verify that  **Virtual Machine** is added.

5. Select  **AutoPilot deployment**, ** **and then select  **Create new profile**.

6. In the details pane, in the  **Enter a profile name** text box, type **Profile1**, ** **turn the switch to  **On** for the following three options, and then select **Create**:


  -  **Skip privacy settings**

  -  **Disable local admin account creation on the device**

  -  **Skip End User License Agreement (EULA)**


7. Select the  **Virtual Machine** check box, select **AutoPilot deployment**, and then select  **Apply Profile1**.

8. Verify that  **Profile1** is listed in the **Profile** column for **Virtual Machine**. This means that the profile has applied.



#### Task 4: Deploy a device by using Windows AutoPilot
  
1. On the host computer, in  **Hyper-V Manager**, in the  **Virtual Machines** section, select **20697-2C-LON-CL5**, ** **in the  **Checkpoints** section, right-click **Generalized**, and then select  **Apply** twice.

2. In Hyper-V Manager, in details pane, double-click on  **20697-2C-LON-CL5**.

3. In the  **20697-2C-LON-CL5** window, select **Action**, ** **and then select  **Start** to turn on the virtual machine (VM).

4. Wait while  **LON-CL5** starts.

5. On the  **Let’s start with region. Is this right?** page, select your country/region, and then select **Yes**.

6. On the  **Is this the right keyboard layout** page, select your keyboard layout, and then select **Yes**.

7. On the  **Want to add a second keyboard layout?** page, select **Skip**.

8. On the  **Welcome to 20697-2C Azure AD** page, verify that the page is customized with the Adatum company branding that you added earlier. In the **someone@example.com** text box, type **Abbi@yourinitialsMMDDYYoutlook.onmicrosoft.com**, ** **and then select  **Next**.

9. On the  **Enter your password** page, verify that a custom graphic is present, in addition to text on the bottom of the page. In the **Password** text box, type **Pa55w.rd**, ** **and then select  **Next**.

>  **Note:** While Abbi is signing in, notice that you weren’t asked for privacy settings. You disabled that in the Windows AutoPilot deployment profile.

10. On the  **Your organization requires Windows Hello** page, select **Set up PIN**, close the  **Help us protect your account** page, and then select **Skip for now**.

11. On the taskbar, select  **Start**, type  **account**, and then select  **Your account picture and profile settings**. The Settings app opens.

12. In the Settings app, verify that you are signed in as  **ABBI SKINNER**. Notice that she is a normal user, and the text “Administrator” doesn’t appear under her name. Close the Settings app.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully implemented Azure AD company branding. You should also have successfully implemented Windows AutoPilot Deployment and used it to deploy Windows 10 devices.


## Exercise 3: Using Microsoft Store for Business to deploy apps
  
#### Task 1: Assign a Microsoft Store for Business app
  
1. On  **LON-CL5**, where you are signed in as  **Abbi**, on the taskbar, select  **Start**, type  **internet**, ** **and then select  **Internet Explorer**.

2. In Internet Explorer, select the  **Use recommended security and compatibility settings** option, and then select **OK**.

3. In Internet Explorer, in the address bar, type  **https://portal.office.com**, and then press Enter. 
>  **Note:** You signed in to Office portal as Abbi Skinner, although you weren’t asked for credentials. You are signed in to **LON-CL5** with an Azure AD account, and the same account is used to access the Office portal.
4. On the  **Microsoft Office Home** page, select **Mail**.

5. On the  **Outlook** page, select your language, select the time zone and then select **Save**.

6. On  **LON-CL1**, in Internet Explorer, on the  **Microsoft Store for Business** page, in the navigation pane, select **Products &amp; services**.

7. In the details pane, select  **Fresh Paint**, and then select  **Assign Users**.

8. In the  **Assign to people** dialog box, in the **Enter a name or email address** text box, type **abbi**, select  **Abbi Skinner**, ** **and then select  **Assign**.

9. Scroll down and verify that Abbi Skinner appears in the  **Users** section.

10. On  **LON-CL5**, in Internet Explorer, on the  **Outlook** page, double-click the message from Microsoft Store.

11. In the email message, select the  **click here** link to always show content from this sender.

12. In the email message, select  **Get the app**.

13. In the Microsoft Store app, select  **Install**.

14. Wait until you see the notification that Fresh Paint has installed, and then select  **Launch**.

15. Verify that Fresh Paint has started, and then press Alt+F4 to close Fresh Paint.

16. Close the Microsoft Store app by pressing ALT+F4.

17. On  **LON-CL1**, in Internet Explorer, in the  **Users** section, in the row in which **Abbi Skinner** appears, on the right of the window, select the ellipsis ( **…**) in the  **Manage** column, select **Reclaim license**, ** **and then select  **Reclaim licenses**. Verify that Abbi Skinner no longer appears in the  **Users** section.

>  **Note:** You reclaimed the license for the Fresh Paint app from Abbi Skinner. If the app weren’t free, Abbi would not be allowed to run the app.


#### Task 2: Prepare for the next module
  
 When you finish with the lab, revert the  **LON-CL1**,  **LON-CL2** and **LON-CL5** VMs to their initial state. *Don’t* revert **LON-DC1**: 

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In the  **Virtual Machines** list, right-click **20697-2C-LON-CL1**, and then select  **Revert**.

3. In the  **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, select **Revert**.

4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20697-2C-LON-CL2** and ** 20697-2C-LON-CL5**.

>  **Note:** *Don’t* revert **LON-DC1**!  **LON-DC1** is synchronizing on-premises Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) with Azure AD.

>  **Result**: After finishing this exercise, you will assign and install an app from Microsoft Store for Business. You will also reclaim the app license.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  