# Lab Answer Key:  Module 10: Managing data access for Windows-based devices
# Lab A: Implementing and using Work Folders
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring Work Folders
  
#### Task 1: Configure infrastructure requirements
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, right-click  **Start**, and then select **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.

2. In the  **Windows PowerShell** command-line interface, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter.

  ```
  Install-WindowsFeature FS-SyncShareService
  ```

3. Minimize the  **Windows PowerShell** window.

4. In  **Server Manager**, in the navigation pane, select  **File and Storage Services**, and then select  **Work Folders**.

5. In the  **WORK FOLDERS** section, select **TASKS**, and then select  **New Sync Share**.

6. In the  **New Sync Share Wizard**, on the  **Before you begin** page, select **Next**.

7. On the  **Select the server and path** page, in the **Enter a local path** text box, type **C:\\syncshare1**, select  **Next**, and then select  **OK** to create the folder.

    >  **Note:** If **LON-DC1** is not listed in the **Servers** section, select **Cancel**. In Server Manager, select **Refresh**, and then repeat this task beginning with step 5.

8. On the  **Specify the structure for user folders** page, verify that  **User alias** is selected, and then select **Next**.

9. On the  **Enter the sync share name** page, select **Next** to accept the default sync share name.

10. On the  **Grant sync access to groups** page, click **Add**, and in the  **Enter the object name to select** text box, type **Managers**, select  **OK**, and then select  **Next**.

11. On the  **Specify security policies for PCs** page, verify the two available options. Clear the **Automatically lock screen, and require a password** check box, and then select **Next**.

12. On the  **Confirm selections** page, select **Create**.

13. On the  **View Results** page, select **Close**.

14. In  **Server Manager**, in the  **WORK FOLDERS** section, verify that **syncshare1** is listed, and that in the **USERS** section, user **Adam Hobbs** is listed.

15. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, select  **Tools,** and then select **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager**.

16. In  **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager**, in the navigation pane, expand  **LON-DC1 (ADATUM\\Administrator)**. Expand  **Sites**, right-click  **Default Web Site**, and then select  **Edit Bindings**.

17. In the  **Site Bindings** dialog box, select **Add**.

18. In the  **Add Site Binding** dialog box, in the **Type** box, select **https**. In the  **SSL certificate** box, select **LON-DC1.adatum.com**, select  **OK**, and then select  **Close**.

19. Close the  **IIS Manager**.



#### Task 2: Configure Group Policy settings to configure Work Folders
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, select the  **Tools** menu, and then select **Group Policy Management**.

2. In the  **Group Policy Management Console**, in the navigation pane, expand  **Forest: Adatum.com**, expand  **Domains**, expand  **Adatum.com**, and then select  **Managers**. 

3. Right-click  **Managers**, and then select  **Create a GPO in this domain, and Link it here**. 

4. In the  **Name** text box, type **Deploy Work Folders**, and then select  **OK**.

5. Right-click  **Deploy Work Folders**, and then select  **Edit**.

6. In the  **Group Policy Management Editor**, under  **User Configuration**, in the navigation pane, expand  **Policies**, expand  **Administrative Templates**, expand  **Windows Components**, and then select the  **Work Folders** node.

7. In the details pane, right-click  **Specify Work Folder settings**, and then select  **Edit**.

8. In the  **Specify Work Folders settings** dialog box, select **Enabled**.

9. In the  **Work Folders URL** text box, type **https://lon-dc1.adatum.com**. 

10. Select the  **Force automatic setup** check box, and then select **OK**.

11. Close the  **Group Policy Management Editor**.

12. Sign out of  **LON-CL2**.

13. Sign back in as  **adatum\\adam** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

14. On the desktop, on the taskbar, click the  **File Explorer** icon.

15. In the navigation pane, click  **Work Folders**.

16. Right-click in the details pane, select  **New**, select  **Text Document**, and then name the file **On LON-CL2**.



#### Task 3: Import the Adatum CA root certificate to LON-CL4
  
1. On  **LON-CL4**, sign out and then sign in as  **LON-CL4\\Admin**.

2. Right-click  **Start**, and then click  **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.

3. Click  **Yes** in the **User Account Control** dialog box.

4. In the  **Command Prompt** window, type **Net Use J: \\\\lon-dc1\\certenroll**, and then press  **Enter**. 

5. When you receive a prompt for a user name, type  **Adatum\\Administrator**, and then press  **Enter**.

6. When you receive a prompt for a password, type  **Pa55w.rd**, and then press  **Enter**.

7. Close the  **Windows PowerShell** window.

8. Right-click  **Start**, and then select  **Run**.

9. In the  **Run** dialog box, type **MMC**, and then press  **Enter**. 

10. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box, select **Yes**.

11. In the  **Console1** window, select **File**, and then select  **Add/Remove Snap-in**.

12. In the  **Add/Remove Snap-in** dialog box select **Certificates**, and then select  **Add**.

13. On the  **Certificates snap-in** page, select **Computer Account**, and then select  **Next**.

14. On the  **Select Computer** page, select **Finish**, and then select  **OK**.

15. Expand  **Certificates**, expand  **Trusted Root Certification Authorities**, and then select  **Certificates**.

16. Right-click  **Certificates**, select  **All Tasks**, and then select  **Import**.

17. In the  **Certificate Import Wizard**, select  **Next**.

18. On the  **Files to Import** page, select **Browse**, click  **certenroll (\\\\lon-dc1) (J:)**, select the  **LON-DC1.Adatum.com_AdatumCA.crt** file, select **Open**, and then select  **Next**. 

19. On the  **Certificate Store** page, select **Place all certificates in the following store**, and then select  **Browse**.

20. Select the  **Trusted Root Certification Authorities** store, select **OK**, and then select  **Next**.

21. Select  **Finish**, and then select  **OK** to close the dialog box with the success message.

22. Close all open windows without saving.



#### Task 4: Deploy Work Folders
  
1. On  **LON-CL4**, select  **Start**, type  **Work Folders**, and then select  **Work Folders**. 

2. On the  **Manage Work Folders** page, click  **Set up Work Folders**.

3. On the  **Enter your work email address** page, select **Enter a Work Folders URL instead**.

4. On the  **Enter a Work Folders URL** page, in the **Work Folders URL** text box, type **https://lon-dc1.adatum.com**, and then select  **Next**.

5. In the  **Windows Security** dialog box, in the **User name** text box, type **adatum\\adam**. In the  **Password** text box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **OK**.

6. On the  **Introducing Work Folders** page, review the local Work Folders location, and then click **Next**.

7. On the  **Security policies** page, select the **I accept these policies on my PC** check box, and then select **Set up Work Folders**.

8. On the  **Work Folders has started syncing with this PC** page, select **Close**.

9. On the  **Work Folders** page, verify that the **On LON-CL2.txt** file displays.



#### Task 5: Perform Work Folders synchronization
  
1. On  **LON-CL4**, in  **Work Folders**, right-click in the details pane, click  **New**, click  **Text Document**, then in the  **Name** text box, type **On LON-CL4**, and then press Enter.

2. On  **LON-CL2**, in  **Work Folders**, verify that the  **On LON-CL4** file is displayed.

    >  **Note:** In Windows 10, Work Folders synchronizes immediately. In Windows 8.1, it could take up to 10 minutes for synchronization.

3. On the taskbar, right-click the  **Start** button, and then click **Network Connections**.

4. In the  **Settings** window, click **Change adapter options**. 

5. Right-click  **Ethernet**, and then click  **Disable**. 

6. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box, in the **User name** text box, type **Administrator**. In the  **Password** text box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Yes**.

7. On  **LON-CL2**, in  **Work Folders**, double-click  **On LON-CL2**.

8. In  **Notepad**, type  **Modified offline**.

9. Close  **Notepad**, and when prompted, select  **Save**.

10. In  **Work Folders**, right-click in the details pane, select  **New**, select  **Text Document**, and then name the file **Offline LON-CL2**.

11. On  **LON-CL4**, in  **Work Folders**, double-click the  **On LON-CL2.txt** file.

12. In  **Notepad**, type  **Online modification**.

13. Close  **Notepad**, and then select  **Save**.

14. On  **LON-CL2**, in the  **Network Connections** window, right-click **Ethernet**, and then click  **Enable**. 

15. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box, in the **User name** text box, type **Administrator**. In the  **Password** text box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Yes**.

16. Switch to  **Work Folders**, and verify that files display in the details pane, including **On LON-CL2** and **On LON-CL2-LON-CL2**.

    >  **Note:** Because the file was modified at two locations, a conflict occurred, and one of the copies was renamed by appending the name of the computer where the confilct occured.



#### Task 6: Prepare for the next lab
  
- When you have finished the lab, keep the virtual machines running as they will be needed for the next lab in this module.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Work Folders.



# Lab B: Managing Data Access by Using OneDrive
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring OneDrive
  
#### Task 1: Configure the OneDrive sync client
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, right-click  **Start** and select **Run**.

2. In the  **Run** dialog box, in the **Open** box, type **odopen://sync?useremail=Adam@*&lt;Initials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com,** and then select **OK**. (Using the tenant domain that you configured in previous labs.)

3. In the  **Microsoft OneDrive** window, select **Sign in**.

4. In the  **Enter password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then select  **Sign in**.

5. On the  **This is your OneDrive folder** page, select **Next**.

6. On the  **Sync your OneDrive files to this PC** page, select **Next** to sync all files and folders.

7. Select the right arrow three times and select  **Open my OneDrive folder**.

8. Verify that File Explorer is showing the OneDrive folder for Adam. 



#### Task 2: Verify file synchronization
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, in  **File Explorer**, right-click the details pane, select  **New**, and then select  **Microsoft Word Document**.

2. Type  **LocalDoc** and press Enter to rename the file.

3. Double-click  **LocalDoc**.

4. If prompted for activation, select  **Close**.

5. If prompted with a  **First things first** window, select **Install updates only** and select **Accept**.

6. In  **Word**, type  **Local Content** and press **Enter**.

7. Close  **Word** and save the changes.

8. Verify that  **LocalDoc** has the green checkmark icon to show that it is synchronized.

9. Open  **Microsoft Edge**, in the address bar, type  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com), and then press Enter.

10. Sign in as  **Adam@*&lt;Initials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com** by using a password of **Pa55w.rd**

11. On the  **Microsoft Office Home** page, select **OneDrive**.

12. On the  **OneDrive** page, select **LocalDoc.docx**.

13. If necessary, in the  **LocalDoc.docx** tab, select **Edit Document**, and then select  **Edit in Browser**.

14. Add a new line with the text  **Cloud Content**.

15. Wait until the status in the header is  **Saved**, and then close the  **LocalDoc.Docx** page.

16. In  **File Explorer**, double-click  **LocalDoc**.

17. If prompted for activation, select  **Close**.

18. Verify that the line  **Cloud Content** is present, and then close Word.



#### Task 3: Configure files on demand
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, in the notification area, right-click the blue cloud icon and select  **Settings**.

2. In the  **Microsoft OneDrive** dialog box, on the **Settings** tab, select the **Save space and download files as you use them** check box, and select **OK**.

3. In  **Microsoft Edge**, on the  **OneDrive** page, select **New**, and then select  **Excel workbook**.

4. On the  **Book.xlsx** page, in cell A1, type **Cloud**, and then press Enter.

5. In the header area, select  **Documents**.

6. In  **File Explorer**, select  **View**, and then select  **List**.

7. Verify that  **Book** has a cloud icon that indicates that the file is not stored locally.

8. Right-click  **Book**, and then select  **Properties**.

9. Verify that  **Size on disk** is **0 bytes**, and then select  **OK**.

10. Double-click  **Book**.

11. If prompted for activation, select  **Close**.

12. In  **Excel**, in cell  **A2**, type  **Local**, and then press Enter.

13. Close  **Excel** and save the changes.

14. In  **File Explorer**, verify that Book now has a green checkmark to indicate it is cached locally.



#### Task 4: Recover previous versions
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, in  **Microsoft Edge**, on the  **OneDrive** page, right-click **Book.xlsx**, and then select  **Version history**.

2. In the  **Version History** area, right-click **Version 2.0**, and then select  **Open File**.

3. In the  **Microsoft Office warning** dialog box, select **Yes**.

4. On the  **Sign in** page, type **Adam@*&lt;Initials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com**, and then select  **Next**.

5. In the  **Enter password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then select  **Sign in**.

6. If prompted for activation, select  **Close**.

7. Notice that this version contains  **Cloud** but does not contain **Local**.

8. Close  **Excel**.

9. In  **Microsoft Edge**, on the  **OneDrive** page, right-click **Version 2.0**, and then select  **Restore**.

10. Notice that a new version has been created, and then close the  **Version History** area.



#### Task 5: Recover a deleted file
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, in  **File Explorer**, right-click  **LocalDoc**, and then select  **Delete**.

2. In the  **Delete File** dialog box, select **Yes**.

3. In  **Microsoft Edge**, on the  **OneDrive** page, select **Refresh**, and then verify that LocalDoc.docx has been deleted.

4. In the navigation pane, select  **Recycle bin**.

5. Select  **LocalDoc.docx**, and then select  **Restore**.

6. In the navigation pane, select  **Files**, and then verify that LocalDoc.docx has been restored. If necessary, select  **Refresh**.

7. In  **File Explorer**, verify that LocalDoc has been restored.



#### Task 6: Share a file
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, in  **File Explorer**, right-click  **LocalDoc**, and then click  **Share**.

2. In the  **Share “LocalDoc.docx”** dialog box, select **Anyone with the link can view and edit**.

3. Select  **Specific people**, verify that  **Allow editing** is enabled, and then select **Apply**.

4. In the  **Enter a name or email address box**, type  **Abbi**, select  **Abbi Skinner**, and then click  **Send**.

5. Close the  **Share “LocalDoc.dox”** dialog box.

6. Right-click  **LocalDoc**, and then click  **Share**.

7. In the  **Share “LocalDoc.dox”** dialog box, in the upper-right corner, click the three dots, and then select **Manage Access**.

8. Verify that  **Abbi Skinner** is listed with the **Can edit** permission

9. Close the  **Share “LocalDoc.dox”** dialog box.

10. Sign out, and then sign in as  **Adatum\\Abbi** by using a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

11. Open  **Microsoft Edge**, in the address bar, type  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com), and then press Enter.

12. Sign in as  **Abbi@*&lt;Initials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com** by using a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

13. On the  **Microsoft Office Home** page, select **OneDrive**.

14. On the  **Get Started with OneDrive** page, select **Your OneDrive is ready**.

15. If necessary, close the  **Welcome to OneDrive** window **.**

16. On the  **OneDrive** page, in the navigation pane, select **Shared with me**.

17. Select  **LocalDoc**, and then read the file contents.

18. If necessary, select  **Edit Document**, and then select  **Edit in Browser**.

19. Add a new line to the file: type  **Abbi’s Content**.

20. Wait for the status to change to Saved, and then close  **Microsoft Edge**.

21. Sign out of LON-CL2.



#### Task 7: Disable external sharing for all users
  
1. On  **LON-CL2**, sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** by using a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Open  **Microsoft Edge**, in the address bar, type  [**https://portal.office.com**](https://portal.office.com), and then press Enter.

3. Sign in as  **GAdmin@*&lt;Initials&gt;&lt;MMDDYY&gt;*outlook.onmicrosoft.com** by using your password.

4. When you receive a prompt to stay signed in, select  **No**.

5. On the  **Microsoft Office Home** page, select **Admin**.

6. On the  **Office 365** page, select **Users**.

7. On the  **Active users** page, select **Adam Hobbs**, scroll down, and then select  **OneDrive Settings**.

8. Select  **Access files**, and then select the link that is displayed.

9. Review Adam’s files, and then close the  **OneDrive** page.

10. On the  **Admin Center** page, select **Close**.

11. In the navigation pane, select  **Admin centers**, and then select  **OneDrive**.

12. Select  **Sharing**, and then scroll down.

13. Under  **External sharing**, for  **OneDrive**, select  **Only people in your organization**, and then select  **Save**.

14. Close  **Microsoft Edge**.



#### Task 8: Prepare for the next lab
  
- When you have finished the lab, keep the virtual machines running, as they will be needed for the next lab in this module.




>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured OneDrive for Business.



# Lab C: Publishing and using RemoteApp programs
  
## Exercise 1: Publishing RemoteApp programs
  
#### Task 1: Install RDS
  
1. On  **LON-SVR1**, select  **Start**, and then select  **Server Manager**.

2. In  **Server Manager**, select **Manage**, and then select  **Add Roles and Features**.

3. In the  **Add Roles and FeaturesWizard**, on the  **Before you begin** page, select **Next**.

4. On the  **Select installation type** page, select **Remote Desktop Services installation**, and then select  **Next**.

5. On the  **Select Deployment type** page, select **Quick Start**, and then select **Next**.

6. On the  **Select deployment scenario** page, select **Session-based desktop deployment**, and then select  **Next**.

7. On the  **Select a server** page, select **Next**.

8. On the  **Confirm selections** page, select the **Restart the destination server automatically if required** check box, and then select **Deploy**.

9. Wait for the roles to be installed and for the server to restart.

10. After the server restarts, sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** by using the password of **Pa55w.rd**.

11. Select  **Start** and select **Server Manager**.

12. In  **Server Manager**, wait for the installation wizard to continue.

13. When all processes have succeeded, select  **Close**.

14. Close  **Server Manager**.



#### Task 2: Create a session collection
  
1. On  **LON-SVR1**, select  **Start**, and then select  **Server Manager**.

2. In the navigation pane, select  **Remote Desktop Services**, and then select  **Collections**.

3. In the  **COLLECTIONS** area, right-click **QuickSessionCollection**, and then select  **Remove Collection**.

4. In the  **Remove Collection** dialog box, click **Yes** to confirm.

5. In the  **COLLECTIONS** area, select **TASKS**, and then select  **Create Session Collection**.

6. In the  **Create Collection** wizard, on the **Before you begin** page, select **Next**.

7. On the  **Name the collection** page, in the **Name** text box, type **RemoteApp Collection**, and then select  **Next**.

8. On the  **Specify RD Session Host server** page, select **LON-SVR1.Adatum.com**, select the  **Right Arrow** to add it to **Selected**, and then select  **Next**.

9. On the  **Specify user groups** page, verify that the **ADATUM\\Domain Users** group is listed, and then select **Next**.

10. On the  **Specify user profile disks** page, clear the **Enable user profile disks** check box, and then select  **Next**.

11. On the  **Confirm selections** page, review the configured settings, and then select **Create**.

12. When the wizard finishes, click  **Close**.



#### Task 3: Publish RemoteApp programs
  
1. On  **LON-SVR1**, in Server Manager, in the navigation pane, select  **RemoteApp Collection**.

2. In the  **REMOTEAPP PROGRAMS** area, select **TASKS**, and then select  **Publish RemoteApp Programs**.

3. In the  **Publish RemoteApp Programs** wizard, on the **Select RemoteApp programs** page, select the following RemoteApp programs, and then select **Next**:

-  **Calculator**

-  **Paint**

-  **WordPad**

4. On the  **Confirmation** page, select **Publish**.

5. After the RemoteApp programs are published, select  **Close**.



#### Task 4: Create a trusted certificate
  
1. On  **LON-SVR1**, right-click  **Start**, and then select  **Run**.

2. In the  **Run** dialog box, type **mmc.exe**, and then select  **OK**.

3. In the  **Console1** window, select **File**, and then select  **Add/Remove Snap-in**.

4. In the  **Add or Remove Snap-ins** window, double-click **Certificates**.

5. In the  **Certificates snap-in** dialog box, select **Computer account**, and then select  **Next**.

6. In the  **Select Computer** dialog box, select **Local Computer**, and then select  **Finish**.

7. In the  **Add or Remove Snap-ins** window, select **OK**.

8. In the  **Console1** window, in the navigation pane, expand **Certificates (Local Computer)**, expand  **Personal**, and then select  **Certificates**.

9. Select  **Action**, select  **All Tasks**, and select  **Request New Certificate**.

10. In the  **Certificate Enrollment** wizard, on the **Before You Begin** page, select **Next**.

11. On the  **Select Certificate Enrollment Policy** page, select **Active Directory Enrollment Policy**, and then select  **Next**.

12. On the  **Request Certificates** page, select the **Adatum Web Server** check box, and then select the **More information is require to enroll for this certificate** link.

13. In the  **Certificate Properties** dialog box, on the **Subject** tab, in the **Subject name** area, in the **Type** box, select **Common name**.

14. In the  **Value** box, type **lon-svr1.adatum.com** and select **Add**.

15. In the  **Alternative name** area, in the **Type** box, select **DNS**.

16. In the  **Value** box, type **lon-svr1.adatum.com**, and then select  **Add**.

17. On the  **Private Key** tab, expand **Key options**, select the  **Make private key exportable** check box, and then select **OK**.

18. In the  **Certificate Enrollment** wizard, on the **Request Certificates** page, select **Enroll**.

19. On the  **Certificate Installation Results** page, select **Finish**.

20. In the  **Console1** window, select the **lon-svr1.adatum.com** certificate issued by **AdatumCA**.

21. Select  **Action**, select  **All Tasks**, and then select  **Export**.

22. In the  **Certificate Export Wizard**, on the  **Welcome to the Certificate Export Wizard** page, and then select **Next**.

23. On the  **Export Private Key** page, select **Yes, export the private key,** and then select **Next**.

24. On the  **Export File Format** page, select **Next**.

25. On the  **Security** page, select the **Password** check box.

26. In the  **Password** and **Confirm password** boxes, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then select  **Next**.

27. On the  **File to Export** page, in the **File name** box, type **C:\\cert.pfx,** and then select **Next**.

28. On the  **Completing the Certificate Export Wizard** page, select **Finish**.

29. Click  **OK** to close the success message.

30. Close  **Console1** and do not save the changes.



#### Task 5: Configure certificates for RDS
  
1. On  **LON-SVR1**, in  **Server Manager**, in the navigation pane, select  **Collections**.

2. In the  **COLLECTIONS** area, select **TASKS**, and then select  **Edit Deployment Properties**.

3. In the  **Deployment Properties** window, in the navigation pane, select **Certificates**.

4. Select  **RD Connection Broker - Enable Single Sign On**, and then select  **Select existing certificate**.

5. In the  **Select Existing Certificate** dialog box, in the **Certificate path** box, type **C:\\cert.pfx**.

6. In the  **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**.

7. Select the  **Allow the certificate to be added to the Trusted Root Certification Authorities certificate store on the destination computers** check box, and then select **OK**.

8. In the  **Deployment Properties** window, select **Apply**.

9. Select  **RD Connection Broker - Publishing**, and then select  **Select existing certificate**.

10. In the  **Select Existing Certificate** dialog box, in the **Certificate path** box, type **C:\\cert.pfx**.

11. In the  **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**.

12. Select the  **Allow the certificate to be added to the Trusted Root Certification Authorities certificate store on the destination computers** check box, and then select **OK**.

13. In the  **Deployment Properties** window, select **Apply**.

14. Select  **RD Web Access**, and then select  **Select existing certificate**.

15. In the  **Select Existing Certificate** dialog box, in the **Certificate path** box, type **C:\\cert.pfx**.

16. In the  **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**.

17. Select the  **Allow the certificate to be added to the Trusted Root Certification Authorities certificate store on the destination computers** check box, and then select **OK**.

18. In the  **Deployment Properties** window, select **OK**.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have deployed RemoteApp programs.



## Exercise 2: Accessing published RemoteApp programs
  
#### Task 1: Connect to RD Web Access
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, select  **Microsoft Edge**.

2. In the address bar, type  **https://lon-svr1.adatum.com/rdweb**, and then press Enter.

3. On the  **Work Resources** page, in the **Domain\\user name** box, type **Adatum\\Adam**.

4. In the  **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then select  **Sign in**.

5. Select  **Paint**.

6. In the popup box, click  **Open**.

7. In the  **RemoteApp** window, select **Don’t ask me again for remote connections from this publisher**, and then select  **Connect**.

8. In the  **Windows Security** window, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then select  **OK**.

9. Close  **Paint** and **Microsoft Edge**.



#### Task 2: Configure SSO
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, select  **Tools**, and then select  **Group Policy Management**.

2. In Group Policy Management, select  **Adatum.com**, select  **Action**, and then select  **Create a GPO in this domain, and Link it here**.

3. In the  **New GPO** dialog box, in the **Name** box, type **RDS SSO,** and then select **OK**.

4. Right-click  **RDS SSO**, and then select  **Edit**.

5. In  **Group Policy Management Editor**, under  **Computer Configuration**, expand  **Policies**, expand  **Administrative Templates**, expand  **System**, and then select  **Credentials Delegation**.

6. In the details pane, double-click  **Allow delegating default credentials**.

7. In the  **Allow delegating default credentials** window, select **Enabled**, and then select  **Show**.

8. In the  **Show Contents** dialog box, in the value box, type **TERMSRV/lon-svr1.adatum.com**, and then select  **OK**.

9. In the  **Allow delegating default credentials** window, select **OK**.

10. Close  **Group Policy Management Editor** and **Group Policy Management**.

11. Restart  **LON-CL1**, and then sign in as  **Adatum\\Adam** by using a password of **Pa55w.rd**.



#### Task 3: Test SSO from RD Web Access
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, select  **Microsoft Edge**.

2. In the address bar, type  **https://lon-svr1.adatum.com/rdweb**, and then press Enter.

3. On the  **Work Resources** page, in the **Domain\\user name** box, type **Adatum\\Adam**.

4. In the  **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then select  **Sign in**.

5. Select  **Paint**.

6. In the popup box, click  **Open**.

7. Close  **Paint** and **Microsoft Edge**.



#### Task 4: Configure RemoteApp and Desktop Connections
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, select  **Start**, and then select  **Settings**.

2. In the  **Settings** window, type **remoteapp**, and then click  **AccessRemoteApp and desktops**.

3. In the  **Access RemoteApp and desktops** window, in the **Email address or connection URL** box, type **https://lon-svr1.adatum.com/rdweb/feed/webfeed.aspx**, and then select  **Next**.

4. In the  **Ready to set up the connection** page, read the information, and then select **Next**.

5. In the  **Windows Security** window, sign in as **Adatum\\Administrator** by using a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

6. On the  **You have successfully set up the following connection** page, select **Finish**.

7. Select  **Start**, and then select  **Paint (Work Resources**).

8. Close  **Paint**.



#### Task 5: Prepare for the next module
  
 When you have finished the lab, revert all virtual machines back to their initial state:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In the  **Virtual Machines** list, right-click **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, and then click  **Revert**.

3. In the  **Revert Virtual Machines** dialog box, click **Revert**.

4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20697-2C-LON-SVR1**,  **20697-2C-LON-CL1**,  **20697-2C-LON-CL2**, and  **20697-2C-LON-CL4**.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have accessed RemoteApp programs.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  