# Module 5: Managing desktop and application settings by using Group Policy
# Lab: Configuring Group Policy policies and Group Policy preferences
  
### Scenario
  
 The Administrators team at Adatum Corporation in considering accepting a few new employees to the team. Management has asked you to demonstrate the use of Group Policy and some Group Policy policies and Group Policy preferences in the Adatum AD DS environment. You have decided to start with the basics and set up a demonstration environment. You plan to show how GPOs are processed and how you can modify their processing order. Adatum Corporation in using a central store, and therefore, you will demonstrate how you can create a central store and extend it with additional administrative templates. You also plan to demonstrate the use of Group Policy preferences and how they are different from Group Policy policies.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to manage Windows 10 by using Group Policy policies and Group Policy preferences.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 50 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, ** 20697-2C-LON-CL1**, ** **and ** 20697-2C-LON-CL2**

 Usernames:  **Adatum\Administrator** and **Adatum\Beth**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine environment. ** **Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In  **Hyper-V Manager**, select  **20697-2C-LON-DC1**, and then in the Actions pane, select  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, select  **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts. 

4. Sign in by using the following credentials: 


  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**


3. Repeat steps 2 to 4 for  **20697-2C-LON-CL1.**

4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for ** 20697-2C-LON-CL2**.



## Exercise 1: Managing Windows 10 by using Group Policy
  
### Scenario
  
 You first plan to challenge employees to administer GPOs from a Windows 10 computer that does not have  **GPMC** installed. You will then show the default order of GPO processing and how GPOs that are linked at a lower level overwrite conflicting settings from the GPOs that are linked to a higher-level container. You plan to show this by using easy recognizable setting, such as desktop background. You will also demonstrate how to modify GPO processing order, generate and view RSoP reports, and show the benefits of the central store.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Preparing the environment

2. Creating and linking GPOs

3. Modifying GPO processing order

4. Working with RSoP reports

5. Creating a central store



#### Task 1: Preparing the environment
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, run the  **E:\Labfiles\Mod05\Mod05-Preparation.ps1** script.

2. Sign in to  **LON-CL2** as **Adatum\Beth** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. Verify that  **GPMC** is not available on **LON-CL2**.

4. Verify that there is only one snap-in available that starts with words  **Group Policy**. Also verify that  **Resultant Set of Policy** snap-in is available on **LON-CL2**.

5. Use  **Get-Command *gpo*** cmdlet to verify that only three commands that include string gpo are available and that they are not from GroupPolicy module.

6. Verify that Beth’s desktop is black.

7. Verify the current Screen Saver configuration. Check that the  **On resume, display logon screen** check box is not selected and not grayed out. Also verify that if you select any screen saver, you can modify value in Wait text box.

8. On  **LON-CL1**, verify that there are four snap-ins that starts with words  **Group Policy**.

9. Use  **Get-Command *gpo*** cmdlet to list all commands that include the letters **gpo**. This time, the output is longer and many of those commands are from the  **GroupPolicy** Windows PowerShell module.

10. Verify that the  **Technicians** OU is in the **IT** OU. Also verify that user **Beth Burke** is in the **Technicians** OU.

11. Open  **Group Policy Management**.



#### Task 2: Creating and linking GPOs
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, create a GPO named  **Background1**, ** **and then link it to the  **IT** OU.

2. Edit the  **Background1** GPO, and then configure the following settings at **User Configuration\Policies\Administrative Templates\Desktop\Desktop**:


  - Desktop Wallpaper:  **Enabled**

  - Wallpaper Name:  **\\LON-DC1\Labfiles\Mod05\img1.jpg**


3. In the  **Background1** GPO, configure following settings at **User Configuration\Policies\Administrative Templates\Control Panel\Personalize**:


  - Screen saver timeout:  **Enabled**

  - Screen saver timeout seconds:  **1860**

  - Password protect the screensaver:  **Enabled**


4. On  **LON-CL2**, sign out and then sign in as  **Adatum\Beth** and use **Pa55w.rd** as the password.

5. Verify that Beth’s desktop is no longer black and that an image displays instead. This is the image you specified in the  **Background1** GPO.

6. Verify the current Screen Saver configuration. Check that the  **On resume, display logon screen** check box is selected and **Wait** is set to **31 minutes**, which is 1860 seconds. Also verify that both settings are greyed out and you cannot change them, as they were set in a GPO. 

7. On  **LON-CL1**, copy  **Background1** GPO to new GPO and name it **Background2**.

8. In the  **Background2** GPO, configure the following settings at **User Configuration\Policies\Administrative Templates\Desktop\Desktop**:


  - Desktop Wallpaper:  **Enabled**

  - Wallpaper Name:  **\\LON-DC1\Labfiles\Mod05\img8.jpg**


9. Link  **Background2** GPO to **Technicians** OU **.**

10. On  **LON-CL2**, sign out and then sign in as  **Adatum\Beth** and use **Pa55w.rd** as her password.

11. Verify that Beth’s background changed and now it is picture of flower, as you set it in Background2 GPO. That GPO is linked to the OU that contains Beth’s account and because of that it has overwritten the settings from the  **Background1** GPO.

12. On  **LON-CL1**, use the  **GPMC** to verify that **Background2 GPO** has a precedence value of 1 when applying to **Technicians** OU.



#### Task 3: Modifying GPO processing order
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, use the  **GPMC** to disable the link from **Background2** GPO to the **Technicians** OU.

2. Verify that  **Background2** GPO no longer applies to **Technicians** OU and that **Background1** GPO has now the highest precedence.

3. Set block inheritance on  **Technicians** OU.

4. Verify how the  **GPMC** shows block inheritance on Technicians OU. Also verify that no GPO applies to Technicians OU.

5. On  **LON-CL2**, sign out, and then sign in as  **Adatum\Beth**, ** **and use  **Pa55w.rd** as her password.

6. Verify that Beth’s background changed to black, because neither the  **Background1** GPO nor the **Background2** GPO apply to her.

7. On  **LON-CL1**, use the  **GPMC** to enable the **Background2** GPO link to the **Technicians** OU.

8. Verify that  **Background2** is the only GPO that applies to the **Technicians** OU.

9. Enforce  **Background1** GPO link to IT OU.

10. Verify how the  **GPMC** shows that the **Background1** link is enforced. Also verify that now the **Background1** and **Background2** GPOs apply to the **Technicians** OU and that the **Background1** GPO has a precedence of 1. This is because **Background1** GPO link is enforced.

11. On  **LON-CL2**, sign out and then sign in as  **Adatum\Beth** with the ** **password  **Pa55w.rd**.

12. Verify that after a few seconds, Beth’s background changes back to an image of a running person, which is configured in the  **Background1** GPO.



#### Task 4: Working with RSoP reports
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, use the  **GPMC** to generate Group Policy results report of Beth signing to **LON-CL2**.

2. Verify that you can generate a Group Policy results report only for users who had already signed in to a specific computer.

3. In the Group Policy results report of Beth signing to  **LON-CL2** find information in **User Details** section that shows **Background1** as the winning GPO and that it sets **Screen saver timeout** to **1860** seconds.

4. Open the Group Policy results report of Beth signing to  **LON-CL2** in advanced view.

5. In advanced view, navigate to the  **User Configuration\Administrative Templates\Desktop\Desktop** node.
>  **Note:** Notice that only Control Panel and Desktop nodes are shown under Administrative Templates. This is because you configured GPO settings only in those two nodes.
6. View properties of  **Desktop Wallpaper** setting. Verify that properties include three tabs, on which you can view setting that was applied, as well as all GPOs with conflicting setting.

7. Use  **GPMC** to generate a Group Policy modeling report of Tia signing in on a computer that has an account in the **Computers** container. Review other settings that can be configured, but don’t modify defaults.
>  **Note:** In the **Group Policy Modeling Wizard**, you can configure many additional settings, which you cannot set when you run the  **Group Policy Results Wizard**. The  **Group Policy Results Wizard** shows what happened in the past and you cannot influence that, whereas the **Group Policy Modeling Wizard** shows what will happen under some assumptions and you can specify those assumptions.
8. In the Group Policy modeling report of Tia signing in to  **Computers**, view the  **User Details** section and verify that no user settings would be applied, because Tia’s account is in the Research OU and neither Background1 nor Background2 GPOs apply to that OU.



#### Task 5: Creating a central store
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, use Group Policy Management Editor to verify that administrative templates are currently retrieved from the local computer.

2. Copy the  **C:\Windows\PolicyDefinitions** folder to the ** \\LON-DC1\sysvol\Adatum.com\Policies** folder.
>  **Note:** You copied a local copy of administrative templates to a domain controller and created central store.
3. Use Group Policy Management Editor to verify that administrative templates are now retrieved from the central store.

4. Verify that GPOs don’t have  **Microsoft Office 2016 (Machine)** node in **Administrative Templates** part of computer policy, but they do have **Microsoft User Experience Virtualization** node under **Windows Components**.

5. Copy content of folder  **E:\Labfiles\Mod05\admx** to ** \\LON-DC1\sysvol\Adatum.com\Policies\PolicyDefinitions** folder.

6. Delete  **UserExperienceVirutalization.admx** from the central store.

7. On  **LON-CL1**, verify that GPOs now have  **Microsoft Office 2016 (Machine)** node in **Administrative Templates** part of computer policy, but they do not have **Microsoft User Experience Virtualization** node under **Windows Components**.

8. On LON-DC1, use  **GPMC** to verify that administrative templates are retrieved from the central store. Also verify that GPOs have **Microsoft Office 2016 (Machine)** node in **Administrative Templates** part of computer policy, but they do not have **Microsoft User Experience Virtualization** node under **Windows Components**, because you deleted administrative template from the central store.

9. Remove central store by deleting the  **PolicyDefinitions** folder in the **SYSVOL** shared folder on LON-DC1.

10. On  **LON-CL1**, use  **GPMC** to verify that administrative templates are currently retrieved from the local computer.

11. Verify that GPOs don’t have  **Microsoft Office 2016 (Machine)** node in **Administrative Templates** part of computer policy, but they do have **Microsoft User Experience Virtualization** node under **Windows Components**.

>  **Note:** Updates that you performed in central store are not effective, because local copy of administrative templates is used again.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured and linked GPOs, modified the GPO processing order, created a central store, and generated an RSoP report.


## Exercise 2: Configuring and using Group Policy preferences
  
### Scenario
  
 Adatum Corporation recently decided to replace login scripts with Group Policy preferences. You were asked to demonstrate the configuration of Group Policy preferences and their application as part of GPOs, and also to show which preferences are available. You also want to demonstrate that it is possible to apply individual preference settings to specific users by using item-level targeting.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configuring Group Policy preferences

2. Using filtering and item-level targeting

3. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Configuring Group Policy preferences
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, use the  **GPMC** to create GPO named **Preferences** and link it to **Technicians** OU.

2. Configure  **Preferences** GPO with following two shortcuts preference settings in the user configuration:


  - First shortcut has following settings:

Name:  **Shortcut1**

Location:  **Desktop**

Target path:  **C:\**


  - Second shortcut has following settings:

Name:  **Shortcut2**

Location:  **Desktop**

Target path:  **C:\**

 **Apply once and do not reapply**


3. On  **LON-CL2**, where you are signed in as Beth, verify that currently there is only Recycle Bin icon on the desktop.

4. Refresh GPOs on  **LON-CL2** and verify that Shortcut1 and Shortcut2 are added to the desktop.

5. Delete both shortcuts. Because configuration was performed by Group Policy preference, the user can change it.

6. On  **LON-CL2** refresh GPOs and verify that this time only **Shortcut1** is added to the desktop. Remember that you configured Shortcut2 to apply only once and to not reapply.

7. Verify the default configuration for Internet Explorer home page and Startup setting. 

8. On  **LON-CL1**, configure  **Preferences** GPO with the following Internet Settings preference for Internet Explorer 10:


  - Home Page:  **http://www.microsoft.com/learning** (enable setting by pressing **F6**)

  - Startup:  **Start with tabs from the last session** (disable setting by pressing **F7**)


9. On  **LON-CL2**, refresh the GPOs and then verify Internet Explorer configuration for home page and Startup setting. 

>  **Note:** The Internet Explorer home page is set to **http://www.microsoft.com/learning**, which you configured in the preference. Because preferences are not enforced, you can modify the setting in Internet Explorer. Startup setting is disabled in Group Policy preference and because of that value that you configured in the preference was not applied.


#### Task 2: Using filtering and item-level targeting
  
1. On  **LON-CL2** delete **Shortcut1** on the desktop.

2. Refresh GPOs and verify that Shortcut1 reappears. If you delete the shortcut, it will reappear each time that GPOs are refreshed.

3. On  **LON-CL1**, use  **GPMC** to modify Security Filtering of **Preferences** GPO by adding Beth Burke and remove **Authenticated Users**. Confirm that only  **Beth Burke** is listed in the **Security Filtering** section.

4. On  **LON-CL2** delete **Shortcut1** on the desktop and then refresh GPOs.
>  **Note:** This time **Shortcut1** does not reappear. Although Beth was listed in the **Security Filtering** section, GPOs are applied in the computers’ security context. Because **LON-CL2**, the computer on which Beth is signed in, does not have at least Read permissions to the  **Preferences** GPO, it cannot apply the settings from the GPO.
5. On  **LON-CL1**, modify  **Security Filterin**g of  **Preferences** GPO by adding **Domain Computers**.

6. On  **LON-CL2** refresh GPOs. This time Shortcut1 reappears, as **LON-CL2** is member of the **Domain Computers** group and it has permission to read the **Preferences** GPO.

7. On  **LON-CL1**, use  **GPMC** to configure item-level targeting for **Shortcut1** shortcut preference in **Preferences** GPO. Shortcut1 preference should apply only if computer has more than 90 GB free space on system drive and has C:\Folder1 folder.
>  **Note:** Filter condition should read: “free disk space is greater than or equal to 90 GB on the system drive AND the folder C:\Folder1 exists”.
8. On  **LON-CL2**, run the following command to create a large file (number 6 is followed by 10 zeroes): 

  ```
  Fsutil file createnew file1.txt 60000000000
  ```

9. Verify that disk C has less than 90 GB free space.

10. Delete  **Shortcut1** on the desktop and then refresh GPOs.
>  **Note:** **Shortcut1** does not appear, as disk has less than 90GB free space and folder **C:\Folder1** does not exist.
11. Create folder  **C:\Folder1** and then refresh GPOs.
>  **Note:** Shortcut1 does not appear. Although **C:\Folder1** now exists, disk has still less than 90GB free space.
12. Delete file named  **file1.txt** that you created earlier. Verify that disk C has now more than 90 GB free space and then refresh GPOs.

>  **Note:** Both conditions from item-level targeting are met and **Shortcut1** now appears on the desktop.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module
  
 When you are finished with the lab, revert  **LON-CL1** and **LON-CL2** virtual machines to their initial state:

1. On  **LON-DC1**, run the  **E:\Labfiles\Mod05\Mod05-Cleanup.ps1** script.

2. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

3. In the  **Virtual Machines** list, right-click **20697-2C-LON-CL1**, and then select  **Revert**.

4. In the  **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, select **Revert**.

5. Repeat steps 3 and 4 for  **20697-2C-LON-CL2**.

>  **Note:** Do not revert **LON-DC1**.  **LON-DC1** is synchronizing on-premises AD DS with Azure AD. You can shut down **LON-DC1**.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will configure and apply Group Policy preferences. You will also configure and test GPO filtering and item-level targeting.



## 
  
**Question** 
In the lab, you used the  **GPMC** on **LON-CL1**, which is running Windows 10. How was that possible, considering you did not install RSAT during the lab?

**Question** 
In the lab, why did you only configure user settings in the GPOs?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  